page 1 
  
 SNCF Réseau commissioned oekom research to compile a Verification Report for Pre-Issuance Certification of its Green Bond Programme by the Climate Bond Initiative (CBI). The Climate Bond Certification process includes verifying whether the provisions of the Climate Bond Standard issued by the CBI are met and obtaining evidence to support the verification.   
 Relevant CBI Standards for this Climate Bond Certification:  • Climate Bond Standard (Climate Bond Standard Version 2.0; pre-issuance criteria; status 12/2015) • Low Carbon Land Transport – Eligibility & Guidance Document (status 02/2016)  
 SNCF Réseau’s responsibility was to provide information and documentation on:  • Selection of nominated projects & assets • Internal processes & controls • (Proposed) reporting   
 oekom research is managerially and economically independent. Its independence is guaranteed through registered shares with restricted transferability, rigorous codes of conduct for every analyst and the fact that neither consulting services nor asset management services are offered. oekom research can thus guarantee a high degree of credibility and objectivity for its research findings.  
 
	
  
 Verification Report for Pre-Issuance Certification of the  Green Bond Programme to be launched by SNCF Réseau  Scope 
	
  	
  
 Criteria 
	
  	
  
 Scope 
	
  	
  
 SNCF Réseau’s Responsibility 
	
  	
  
 Independence and Quality Control  
	
  
page 2 
Regular audits by an independent institution against the European voluntary quality standard for responsible investment ARISTA® attest oekom’s extensive quality standards which are complemented by a comprehensive quality management system.   
 oekom research reviewed the information and documentation provided and developed by SNCF Réseau to assess the Green Bond Programme’s alignment with the CBI requirements: • Conformance with the selection of nominated projects & assets requirements • Conformance with the internal processes & controls requirements • Conformance with the reporting requirements    
 This Verification Report for Climate Bond Certification including all documentation provided alongside is intended for the use of SNCF Réseau and the Climate Bond Standard Board. The present document may be published by SNCF Réseau, CBI and oekom research. CBI and oekom research agree to publish the report with the consent of SNCF Réseau.   
 Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted on SNCF Réseau’s Green Bond Programme, oekom research found no evidence for non-conformance with the Climate Bond Standard’s requirements (i.e. Climate Bond Standard Version 2.0/pre-issuance criteria, Low Carbon Land Transport).   
  oekom research AG Munich, 18 October 2016    
	
  	
  
 Opinion 
	
  	
  
 Restriction on Distribution and Use of Report 
	
  	
  
 oekom’s Responsibility as a Verifier 
	
  
page 3 
 Disclaimer 1. oekom research AG uses a scientifically based rating concept to analyse and evaluate the environmental and social performance of companies and countries. In doing so, we adhere to the highest quality standards which are customary in responsibility research worldwide. In addition we create a Second Party Opinion (SPO) on bonds based on data from the issuer. 2. We would, however, point out that we do not warrant that the information presented in this SPO is complete, accurate or up to date. Any liability on the part of oekom research AG in connection with the use of these SPO, the information provided in them and the use thereof shall be excluded. In particular, we point out that the verification of the compliance with the selection criteria is based solely on random samples and documents submitted by the issuer. 3. All statements of opinion and value judgements given by us do not in any way constitute purchase or investment recommendations. In particular, the SPO is no assessment of the economic profitability and credit worthiness of a bond, but refers exclusively to the social and environmental criteria mentioned above. 4. We would point out that this SPO, in particular the images, text and graphics contained therein, and the layout and company logo of oekom research AG are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof shall require the express prior written consent of oekom research AG. Use shall be deemed to refer in particular to the copying or duplication of the SPO wholly or in part, the distribution of the SPO, either free of charge or against payment, or the exploitation of this SPO in any other conceivable manner.  About oekom research oekom research is one of the world’s leading rating agencies in the field of sustainable investment. The agency analyses companies and countries with regard to their environmental and social performance. oekom research has extensive experience as a partner to institutional investors and financial service providers, identifying issuers of securities and bonds which are distinguished by their responsible management of social and environmental issues. More than 100 asset managers and asset owners routinely draw on the rating agency’s research in their investment decisionmaking. oekom research’s analyses therefore currently influence the management of assets valued at over 600 billion euros. As part of our Green Bond Services, we provide support for companies and institutions issuing sustainable bonds, advise them on the selection of categories of projects to be financed and help them to define ambitious criteria. We verify the compliance with the criteria in the selection of projects and draw up an independent second party opinion so that investors are as well informed as possible about the quality of the loan from a sustainability point of view. Contact: oekom research AG, Goethestraße 28, 80336 Munich, Germany, tel: +49 / (0) 89 / 54 41 84-90, e-mail: info@oekom-research.com   
	
  
page 4 
        Annex  • Annex 1: Detailed Findings    
	
  
page 5 
  1. Selection of nominated projects & assets   Requirement  Factual Findings Analysis against Requirements  1.1. Decision-making process to determine eligibility of nominated projects & assets SNCF Réseau has defined a set of environmental objectives and has implemented processes to determine the eligibility of nominated projects.  ✓ 1.2. Assessment of proposed nominated projects & assets  SNCF Réseau assesses all proposed projects against its self-defined eligibility criteria. These meet the bond’s objectives and are compliant with the eligibility criteria under Part B of the Climate Bond Standard. ✓ 
1.3. Documentation of eligibility of nominated projects & assets SNCF Réseau has developed and established a selection process based on self-defined eligibility criteria. A list of nominated projects is documented internally. ✓ 
1.4. No double nomination of projects & assets By earmarking projects SNCF Réseau has designed a process to ensure that projects are not nominated twice. ✓ 
1.5. Net proceeds in relation to issuer’s debt obligation SNCF Réseau seeks to (re-)finance low carbon rail transportation. The forecasted financing requirements are approx. EUR 2.8 billion for 2016 and thus above the expected net proceeds of EUR 0.5-1 billion. ✓ 
  
	
  	
  
Annex 1: Detailed Findings  
	
  
page 6 
2. Internal Processes & Controls   Requirement  Factual Findings Analysis against Requirements 2.1. Tracking of proceeds SNCF Réseau confirms that it will track the proceeds using an internal IT system. Allocation will be reviewed annually.  ✓ 
2.2. Managing unallocated proceeds  SNCF Réseau states that temporarily unallocated proceeds will be invested in monetary funds managed following a responsible investment approach, bank deposits, cash, and/or cash equivalents. ✓ 
2.3. Earmarking funds to nominated projects & assets SNCF Réseau states that it has established an earmarking process to manage and account for the nominated projects. ✓ 
 3. Reporting    Requirement  Factual Findings Analysis against Requirements 3.1. Disclosure on investment areas  SNCF Réseau has ensured that prior to issuance it will disclose the CBI investment areas into which the selected projects fall. ✓ 
3.2. Disclosure on intended types of temporary investment instruments SNCF Réseau has ensured that it will disclose the intended types of temporary investment instruments prior to issuance. ✓     
	
  
page 7 
 Requirement  Factual Findings Analysis against Requirements 3.3. Disclosure regarding pre-issuance verification  SNCF Réseau has ensured that it will disclose prior to issuance its application for CBI verification.  ✓ 3.4. Disclosure on periodic assurance engagements SNCF Réseau plans periodic assurance engagements to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard and will report on this fact.  ✓