Kestrel Verifiers | Clim a te  Bonds  Pos t-Issuance Ve rifica tion Re p ort 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 Post Bond Issuance Verification Report 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

  2 
The Connecticut Green Bank views Green Bonds as a key tool to raise the needed capital to confront climate 
change and other pressing environmental issues. Bond issuances are a cost-effective method for sourcing capital, 
and, as we demonstrated through the Green Liberty Bonds issued in 2021, are an excellent opport unity to engage 
the community. Through these Bonds, we grow awareness of climate issues and provide a way for more people to 
invest in solutions. We truly believe that green, the environment, bonds (unites) us. 
 
The transparency required by the Green Bonds Principles and the Climate Bonds Standard are very much in sync 
with the ethos of the Connecticut Green Bank. We strive to make all our data as accessible as possible and to 
report to our stakeholders regularly. With that, we are issuing the 2021 Post-Issuance Green Bond Report that 
contains our third-party verifier’s reports on the use of funds as well as our own reporting regarding the impact of 
the funds raised.  
Green Issuances and their Impact 
GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK  
The Green Bank has always valued transparency as a management principle and a cornerstone of leadership. The 
organization believes that clear and publicly available data, allows for transactions to be replicated with ease, thus 
expediting the transformation of a market. With bonds, we believe the same is true and that impact investors 
require assurance that their investments are going to intended purpose. Ergo, the Green Bank obtained 
certification from the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) for our SHREC ABS 2019-1 Class A and Class B bonds, and we 
worked with Kestrel Verifiers to certify the issuance. CBI has built a thorough Green Bond Program using 
established standards for specific technologies for which the proceeds are used and incorporating transparency 
and robust reporting practices. With bond issuance at the heart of our strategy, the Green Bank needed an efficient 
way to operationalize the certification process. In FY 2020, the Green Bank adopted a Green Bond Framework that 
holds the organization to high standards of transparency and reporting on all future bond issuances. The 
Framework commits the organization to certify its bonds as Climate Bonds per CBI, where applicable. If no CBI 
Standard applies, the Green Bank will designate the issuances as Green Bonds. The Framework also commits the 
Green Bank to engage in regular impact reporting, which is presented in the next part of this Non- Financial 
Statistics section. Working with Kestrel Verifiers and CBI, the Green Bank received programmatic certification in 
April 2020, thus reducing the cost, effort, and time needed to issue Certified Climate Bonds in the future. The 
framework and Kestrel Verifiers’ Second Party Opinion on the framework are publicly available on the Green 
Bank’s website at https://www.ctgreenbank.com/strategy-impact/impact/green-bond-framework/. 
 
BOND ISSUANCES  
SHREC ABS 2019-1 Class A and Class B Bonds  
In April 2019, the Connecticut Green Bank sold $38.6 million in investment-grade rated asset-backed securities. 
This first-of-its-kind issuance monetized the solar home renewable energy credits (SHRECs) generated through the 
Residential Solar Investment Program (RSIP). The sale was comprised of two tranches of SHRECs produced by 
more than 105 megawatts of 14,000 residential solar photovoltaic (PV) systems. The SHRECs were aggregated by 
the Green Bank and sold in annual tranches to Connecticut’s two investor-owned utilities, Eversource Energy and 
United Illuminating Company, at a fixed, predetermined price over 15 years. The funds raised through this sale will 
recover the costs of administering and managing the RSIP, including the incentives offered to residential 
participants in the program. RSIP is discussed in further detail in the section below, Case 3 – Residential Solar 
Investment Program. The 2019 bonds won Environmental Finance’s annual award for both Innovation and Asset 
Backed Security in 2020, highlighting the creative bond-structuring approach for leveraging additional 
environmental benefits. The bonds received Post-Issuance Certification from the Climate Bonds Initiative in May 
  3 
2020. Class A raised $36.8 million and was rated A- by Kroll Bond Rating Agency while Class B raised $1.8 million 
and was rated BBB- by Kroll Bond Rating Agency. 
 
SHREC Green Liberty Bonds, Series 2020 (Series Maturity 2035)  
In June 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Connecticut Green Bank sold $16.8 million of investment-grade 
rated municipal securities, the inaugural offering of Green Liberty Bonds. Modeled after the World War II Series -E 
bonds, which were purchased by more than 80 million Americans, Green Liberty Bonds created an opportunity for 
investors to take on the shared challenge of climate change and green infrastructure investment through the 
purchase of bonds. Green Liberty Bonds are lower-dollar denomination bonds (offered in $1,000 increments), 
making it easier for individual retail investors to consider an investment. This issuance was backed by the third 
tranche of SHRECs, which included just over 39 megawatts across 4,800 residential solar systems. As with the ABS 
monetization, proceeds from the sale went to recover the costs of administering and managing the RSIP. The 
Series 2020 Bonds were the first transaction to be certified as Climate Bonds under the Green Bank’s 
programmatic framework. The transaction won The Bond Buyer Award in Innovative Fi nancing for 2020. This 
municipal bond was rated A by Standard and Poor’s. 
 
SHREC Green Liberty Bonds, Series 2021 (Series Maturity 2036)  
Following the initial sale of Green Liberty Bonds, in May, the Green Bank sold its second offering of Green Liberty 
Bonds, back by revenues from tranche 4 (59.4 megawatts across nearly 7,000 solar systems) in May 2021. As with 
the first Green Liberty Bond issuance, this $24.8 offering was well received by a wide array of retail and institutional 
investors. The issuance was the second transaction to be certified as a Climate Bond using the Green Bank’s 
Programmatic Framework. This municipal bond was rated A by Standard and Poor’s. 
 
USES OF PROCEEDS  
One Climate Bond was issued by the Green Bank in FY20. All proceeds from the 2019-1 Class A and Class B Notes 
have been allocated to the SHREC Program and none are outstanding. Two Climate Bonds were issued in FY 2021. 
All proceeds from these bonds have been allocated to the SHREC Program and none are outstanding. The Green 
Bank will annually report on the use of proceeds from each bond issued and their impact. This information will 
continue to be included in the Non-Financial Statistics portion of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report. The 
use of proceeds from the Green Bond Issuances of the Green Bank are illustrated in the table below. 
 
Table 1: Green Bonds Use of Proceeds 
 

  4 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS  
In alignment with the Green Bank’s targets for issuing Green Bonds, the issuance of the 2019 bonds and two 
issuances of Green Liberty Bonds have directly supported the organization’s goal to increase annual clean energy 
investment on a per capita basis by a factor of ten. The Key Performance Indicators for the Green Bonds closed 
activity are reflected in the tables below. 
 
Table 2: Green Bonds Project Types and Investment by FY Closed 
 
 
Table 3: Green Bonds Project Capacity, Generation and Savings by FY Closed 
 
 
  

  5 
Table 4: Green Bonds Project Averages by FY Closed 
 
 
SOCIETAL IMPACTS  
Ratepayers in Connecticut enjoy the societal benefits, also referred to as social benefits, of Green Bonds. Since 
issuance, these bonds have supported creation of 9,052 job years, avoided the lifetime emission of 3,285,607 tons 
of carbon dioxide, 3,318,389 pounds of nitrous oxide, 2,758,782 pounds of sulfur oxide, and 283,374 pounds of 
particulate matter. These projects are estimated to have generated $24.5 million in tax  revenue in their 
construction for the state of Connecticut. The lifetime economic value of related public health impacts is estimated 
between $108.7 and $245.6 million. (For information on the Calculations and Assumptions used for the following 
tables, please see pages 346 – 350 in the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report from FY2021, which can be 
found here: https://www.ctgreenbank.com/strategy-impact/). 
 
Table 5: Green Bonds Job Years Supported by FY Closed 
Issuance Direct Jobs Indirect and Induced Jobs Total Jobs 
SHREC Series 2019-1 Class A 
and Class B 
2,240 3,421 5,662 
SHREC Green Liberty Bonds, 
Series 2020 
548 721 1,268 
SHREC Green Liberty Bonds, 
Series 2021 
901 1,221 2,122 
Total 3,689 5,363 9,052 
 
  

  6 
Table 6: Green Bonds Tax Revenues Generated by FY Closed 
 
 
Table 7: Green Bonds Avoided Emissions by FY Closed 
 
 
Table 8: Green Bonds Public Health Impact by FY Closed 
 
  

 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Verification Report 1 
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
ISSUER 
Connecticut Green Bank 
FRAMEWORK 
Connecticut Green Bank Green Bond Framework (April 22, 2020) 
STANDARD AND SECTOR CRITERIA 
 
 Solar Energy 
TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT 
Post-Issuance Verification 
ENGAGEMENT PERIOD 
August 23, 2021 – December 2, 2021 
BONDS ISSUED UNDER FRAMEWORK1 
1. Solar Home Renewable Energy Credits (SHREC) Collateralized Notes Series 2019 -1 Class A and 
Class B (Dated 3/26/2019) (“Series 2019-1 Notes”) 
2. Solar Home Renewable Energy Credits (SHREC), Green Liberty Bonds, Series 2020 (Dated 
7/29/2020) (“Series 2020 Bonds”) 
3. Solar Home Renewable Energy Credits (SHREC), Green Liberty Bonds, Series 2021 (Federally 
Taxable) (Climate Bond Certified) (Dated 4/22/2021) (“Series 2021 Bonds”) 
SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES 
The Connecticut Green Bank (“Green Bank”) has issued multiple series of Certified Climate Bonds under a 
programmatic certification received in April 2020 . This Post-Issuance Verification Report is intended to 
address all bonds issued under the framework (Series 2020 Bonds and Series 2021 Bonds) and  the Green 
Bank’s inaugural issuance of Certified Climate Bonds issued prior to the implementation of a programmatic 
approach (Series 2019- 1 Notes). All bonds received Pre -Issuance Certifi cation by the Climate Bonds 
Initiative (“CBI”) Standard Board under the Solar Energy Sector Criteria. CBI administers the Standard and 
Sector Criteria. 
The Climate Bonds Standard ( V3.0) requires a Post -Issuance Verification Report within 24 months of 
issuance and annually for issuers with a programmatic certification. The Green Bank engaged Kestrel 
Verifiers to provide an independent verification on the alignment of all bonds issued under the programmatic 
certification with the Climate Bonds Standard Post-Issuance Requirements.  
This Post -Issuance Verification Report reflects Kestrel Verifiers’ view of th e Green Bank’s projec ts and 
financing, allocation and oversight, and conformance of the bonds issued under the programmatic 
framework with the Climate Bonds Standard (V3.0) and Solar Energy  Sector Criteria. In our opinion, the 
Green Bank’s Certified Climate Bonds are aligned with the internationally accepted Climate Bonds Standard 
and the Solar Energy Sector Criteria.   
 
1 The Green Bank also issued a series of Green Bonds in November 2021 which was not Certified Climate Bonds, and therefore is not 
discussed in this Post-Issuance Verification Report. 

Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  2 
CONFORMANCE WITH CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD AND SECTOR CRITERIA 
Kestrel Verifiers is a Climate Bonds Initiative Approved Verifier. The Kestrel Verification Team included 
environmental scientists and financial professionals. We performed a Reasonable Assurance engagement to 
independently verify that the bonds continue to meet, in all material respects, relevant criteria. 
For this engagement, Kestrel Verifiers reviewed the Green Bank’s  annual reports, bond disclosure 
documentation, Green Bond Framework, documentation on the allocation and uses of bond proceeds, 
relevant plans and alignment to the Green Bank’s  overarching climate objectives , and other publicly 
available information. Our goal was to understand the actual use of proceeds, execution of procedures for 
managing proceeds, ongoing reporting practices, and plans for future reporting on the bonds.  
Assurance Approach 
Kestrel Verifiers’ responsibility was to conduct a Reasonable Assurance engagemen t to determine whether 
the bonds issued under the Programmatic Certification meet, in all material respects, the Post -Issuance 
Verification Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard. Our Reasonable Assurance was conducted in 
accordance with the Climate Bo nds Standard (V3.0) and the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information.  
Kestrel Verifiers has relied on information provided by  Connecticut Green Bank.  There are inherent 
limitations in performing assurance, and fraud, error or non- compliance may occur and not be detected. 
Kestrel Verifiers is not responsible or liable for any opinions, findings or conclusions within the information 
provided by Connecticut Green Bank that are incorrect. Our assurance is limited to  Connecticut Green 
Bank’s policies and procedures in place as of November 2021. The distribution and use of this post-issuance 
verification report are at the sole discretion of Connecticut Green Bank. Kestrel Verifiers does not accept or 
assume any responsibility for distribution to any other person or organization. 
Use of Proceeds and Conformance with Sector Criteria 
The Green Bank’s three series of Certified Climate Bonds have all financed the deployment of incentives 
and the administration of the Residential Solar Investment Program (“RSIP”). Through RSIP, the Green Bank 
provides subsidies to lower the financial barriers to installing residential solar systems. Under the program, 
solar contractors or third -party owners (e.g., SolarCity or SunRun) apply for incentives . In exchange for 
the incentive, the Green Bank is entitled to the environmental attributes of the solar projects, including 
Solar Home Renewable Energy Credits (“SHRECs”). The Green Bank aggregates and monetizes the SHRECs 
generated through RSIP solar installations. Each year of projects is bundled into Tranches. Revenues from 
Tranches 1 and 2 ( 105 MW across 14,000 residential solar systems) were securitized in the Green Bank’s 
Series 2019- 1 Class A and Class B Notes. SHREC Revenues from Tranche 3 (59.4 MW, nearly 
7,000 residential solar systems) and Tranche 4 (39 MW, 4,800 residential solar systems) were securitized 
in the Series 2020 Bonds and the Series 2021 Bonds, respectively.  No proceeds from the Green Bank’ s 
Certified Climate Bonds are outstanding and all funds were used to reimburse the Green Bank for incentives 
and implementation of the RSIP. 
Sector Criteria for Solar Energy (Version 2.1) 
As per the Solar Energy Sector Criteria, onshore solar electricity generation is an eligible Project and Asset 
for Climate Bonds Certification. 
Reporting Status 
The Green Bank has provided information on the impacts of the bond-financed activities in the 2021 Fiscal 
Year Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (“2021 ACFR”) on the Green Bank’s Reporting & Transparency 
website: https://www.ctgreenbank.com/strategy-impact/reporting-transparency/. The Green Bond Impact 
sub-section in the Non-Financial Statistics Section of the 2021 ACFR details the Green Bank’s reporting on 
allocation, eligibility, and impact of bond-financed activities. Impact metrics and key performance indicators 
on bond-financed activities reported in the 2021 ACFR include, but are not limited to:  
 Total number of renewable energy projects installed 
 Clean energy investment leverage ratio 
 Total installed capacity (kW) 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  3 
 Total annual energy saved/produced (MMBtu) 
 Total expected annual generation (kWh) 
 Average project installed capacity (kW) 
 Average project annual energy saved/produced (MMBtu) 
 Average project expected annual generation (kWh) 
Since issuance, these bonds have supported creation of 9,052 job years , avoided the lifetime emission of 
3,285,607 tons of carbon dioxide, 3,318,389 pounds of nitrous oxide, 2,758,782 pounds of sulfur oxide, and 
283,374 pounds of particulate matter. 
The Green Bank reports all  impact metrics on a deal -by-deal basis and makes all data publicly available . 
Assumptions and methodologies for impact quantification are  available in the 2021 ACFR. In subsequent 
years, the Green Bank anticipates producing a supplementary document (in addition to an ACFR) that 
highlights the green bond-financed activities of the Green Bank.  
BASIS FOR QUALIFICATION AND CONCLUSIONS 
Based on the Reasonable Assurance procedures we have conducted, in our opinion, the bonds issued under 
the Green Bank’s programmatic certification conform, in all material respects, with the Post -Issuance 
Verification Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard, and the bond-financed activities are aligned with 
the Solar Energy Sector Criteria.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
April Strid, Lead Verifier  
Kestrel Verifiers 
Hood River, Oregon, United States  
December 1, 2021 
 
© 2021 Kestrel 360, Inc. 
ABOUT KESTREL VERIFIERS 
For 20 years Kestrel has been a trusted consultant in sustainable finance. 
Kestrel Verifiers, a division of Kestrel 360, Inc. is a Climate Bonds Initiative 
Approved Verifier qualified to verify transactions in all asset classes 
worldwide. Kestrel is a US-based certified Women’s Business Enterprise. 
For more information, visit www.kestrelverifiers.com  
 
DISCLAIMER 
This Post-Issuance Verification Report (“ Opinion”) aims to explain how and why the discussed financing 
meets the CBI Climate Bonds Standard based on the information which was available to us during the time 
of this engagement  (August – December 2021) only. By providing this Opinion , Kestrel Verifiers is not 
certifying the materiality of the projects financed by the Climate  Bonds. It was beyon d Kestrel Verifiers’ 
scope of work to review for  regulatory compliance and no surveys or site visits were conducted. 
Furthermore, we are not responsible for surveillance on the project or use of proceeds. Kestrel Verifiers 
relied on information provided by  the Connecticut Green Bank and publicly available information. The 
Opinion delivered by Kestrel Verifiers does not address financial performance of the Climate Bonds or the 
effectiveness of allocation of its proceeds. This Opinion  does not make any assess ment of the 
creditworthiness of the Connecticut Green Bank, or its ability to pay principal and interest when due. This 
is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the Bonds. Kestrel Verifiers is not liable for consequences when 
third parties use this Opi nion either to make investment decisions or to undertake any other business 

Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  4 
transactions. This Opinion may not be altered without the written consent of Kestrel Verifiers. Kestrel 
Verifiers reserves the right to revoke or withdraw this Opinion at any time.  Kestrel Verifiers certifies that 
there is no affiliation, involvement, financial or non-financial interest in the Connecticut Green Bank or the 
projects discussed. We are 100% independent. Language in the offering disclosure s supersedes any 
language included in this Opinion. 
 
 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Verification Report 5 
Appendix A.  
ASSURANCE PROCEDURES  
 
REQUIREMENT ASSURANCE PROCEDURES 
5. Use of Proceeds 
5.1 Proceed Allocation Confirm allocation of the Net Proceeds of the bond to Nominated Projects. 
5.2 Eligibility Criteria Confirm alignment of Nominated Projects with Sector Criteria and overarching 
climate objective of the bond. 
5.3 Allocation Timeline Confirm allocation within 24 months of issuance or disclose timeline for 
allocation to Nominated Projects. 
5.4 Multiple Nominations for 
Certified Debt 
Instruments (5.4.1-
5.4.2) 
Review Nominated Projects for previous nominations to other Certified Climate 
Debt Instruments, green bonds, or other designated instruments , including 
whether certain portions are being financed by separately designated Certified 
Debt Instruments and/or whether Nominated Projects have been refinanced by 
other Certified Debt Instruments or bonds under assessment have refinanced 
existing Certified Debt Instruments. 
5.5 Refinancing If applicable, confirm appropriate tracking of Net Proceeds for refinancing  or 
refunding. 
5.6 Proceed Management Confirm procedures for appropriate tracking of allocation of proceeds and 
tracking unallocated funds. 
5.7 Valuation Review Net Proceeds of the bond to ensure they are not greater than the value 
of the Nominated Projects.  
5.8 Nominated Project 
Modifications (5.8.1) 
Confirm modifications or alterations to the Nominated Projects and determine 
requirement to engage a Verifier to perform a Pre -Issuance or Post-Issuance 
Verification as a result of the change. 
6. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
6.1 Decision-making Process 
for Determining Eligibility 
(6.1.1-6.1.5) 
Review continued documentation of decision -making process used to 
determine eligibility, including conformance with climate -related objectives, 
and review of alignment of the Nominated Projects with Sector Criteria. 
7. Management of Proceeds 
7.1 Proceeds Held in 
Subaccount 
Confirm the allocation of proceeds to  a subaccount, sub -portfolio, or 
alternative accounting to appropriately track allocation of proceeds to 
Nominated Projects.  
7.2 Earmarking of Proceeds Review and confirm the earmarking process to track flow of funds and uses of 
proceeds. 
7.3 Temporary Investment 
Instruments (7.3.1-
7.3.3) 
Review management of unallocated proceeds, including temporary 
investments, and confirm non-contamination of proceeds.  
8. Reporting 
8.1 Reporting Approach 
(8.1.2-8.1.3) 
Confirm disclosure and execution of procedures to provide Update Reports 
and/or procedures to undertake periodic Assurance Engagements during term 
of the bond to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard. Confirm 
availability of the Update Reports for investors and reporting in case of material 
developments. 
 
 
 
 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Verification Report 6 
Appendix B.  
RESPONSIBILITIES AND QUALITY CONTROL  
 
 
Verifier’s Responsibilities 
Kestrel Verifiers’ responsibilities for confirming alignment of the Green Bank’s bonds with the Climate Bonds 
Post-Issuance Verification Requirements for Programmatic Certification include:  
 assess and certify the Green Bank’s internal processes and controls, including selection process for 
projects and assets, internal tracking of proceeds, and the allocation system for funds; 
 assess policies and procedures established by the Green Bank, including reporting;  
 assess the readiness of  the Green Bank to meet and continue to meet the Climate Bonds 
Standard (V3.0)2 and Solar Energy Sector Criteria; and 
 express a Reasonable Assurance conclusion. 
Issuer’s Responsibilities 
Issuer was responsible for providing detailed information and documents relating to: 
 The details of the Nominated Projects and Assets and the project selection process; 
 Maintaining adequate records and internal controls designed to support the Climate Bond Post -
Issuance Certification process; and 
 The collection, preparation, and presentation of the subject matter in accordance with the Climate 
Bonds Standard and Criteria. 
Independence and Quality Control 
For over 20 years, Kestrel Verifiers has been a trusted advisor to state and local governments, non-profits, 
and corporations. Kestrel Verifiers certifies that there is no affiliation, involvement, financial or non-financial 
interest in the issuer or the projects discussed. Accredited as an Approved Verifier by the Climate Bonds 
Initiative in 2017, Kestrel is qualified to evaluate bonds against the Climate Bonds Initiative Standards and 
Criteria.  
2 Version 3.0 of the Climate Bond Standard was released in December 2019. However, the SHREC Series 2019- 1 Notes were certified 
under Version 2.1 before this release. 
  12