Second Opinion 
 
 
 
 
  Rating and Investment Information, Inc.  Copyright (C) 2025 Rating and Investment Information, Inc. All rights reserved. 
(Contact) Sustainable Finance Marketing Dept.: Terrace Square, 3-22, Kandanishiki-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0054, Japan TEL 03-6273-7408 
Second Opinions are R&I's opinions on the alignment of a framework, formulated by companies etc. to raise funds for the purpose of environmental conservation and social 
contribution, with the principles etc. compiled by public organizations or private organizations related to the relevant financing as of the date of assessment and are not 
statements of fact.  Further, R&I does not state its opinions about any matters other than the alignment, certify outcomes, give advice regarding investment decisions or 
financial matters, or endorse the merits of any investment subject to the financing.  R&I does not undertake any independent verification of the accuracy or other aspects of 
the related information when issuing a Second Opinion and makes no related representations or warranties.  R&I is not liable in any way for any damage arising in relation 
to Second Opinions.  As a general rule, R&I issues a Second Opinion for a fee paid by the issuer.  For details, please refer to the end of this document. 
 
 1/23 
Tokyo Metropolitan Government 
October 6, 2025 
 
TOKYO Resilience Bond (Scheduled for 
October 2025) 
 
Sustainable Finance Division 
Keisuke Moriyasu  
 
Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) has confirmed that Tokyo Metropolitan Government's 
TOKYO Resilience Bond (scheduled to be issued in October 2025) meets Climate Bonds Standard(v4.3) 
as well as the following criteria for climate bond certification administered by the Climate Bonds Initiative 
(CBI), and has been engaged to provide an opinion in the form of an external review report. All proceeds 
from the bond will be used for eligible climate resilience investments in accordance with the Climate 
Bonds Standards and Criteria, and the bond issuance will be the first Resilience Bond to reference the 
Climate Bonds Resilience Taxonomy (see page 3 for details).  
In addition, we also confirmed that the Tokyo Resilience Bond Framework (October 2025) formulated 
by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in connection with the bond issuance complies with the principles 
and guidelines of the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) and domestic guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Climate Bonds Standard(v4.3, CBI) Climate Bonds Resilience Taxonomy(August 2025, 
CBI) 
Criteria for certification against the 
CBRT(August 2025, CBI) 
Water Infrastructure Criteria(v3.2, CBI) 
Electrical Grids and Storage Criteria(March 
2022, CBI) 
 
Green Bond Principles (2025, ICMA) Social Bond Principles (2025, ICMA) 
Green Bond Guidelines(2024, Ministry of the 
Environment)) 
Social Bond Guidelines(2021, Financial Services 
Agency) 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines (2021, ICMA)  
Second Opinion 
 
 2/23 
■Use of proceeds from TOKYO Resilience Bond (scheduled to be issued in October 2025) 
No. Eligible projects Indicative non–exhaustive 
project list 
Contribution to climate 
resilience CBI sector criteria 
１ Upgrading small 
and medium-sized 
rivers to enhance 
flood resilience 
（mainly through 
river embankments 
and underground 
regulating 
reservoirs） 
Shakujii River 
Upstream of Zenpukuji River 
 
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to increased 
storage capacity during 
heavy rainfall and reduced 
flood inflow risk into urban 
areas 
Water Infrastructure 
Criteria 
2 Developing and 
upgrading coastal 
protection facilities 
for the Port of Tokyo 
and remote islands 
<Tokyo Port>  
Heikyu Canal (Koto District), 
Asashio Canal (Chuo District), 
Gasmio Canal (Konan District) 
<Islands> Izu Islands 
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to the 
elevation of sea walls 
against storm surges and 
related coastal hazards 
Water Infrastructure 
Criteria 
3 Reinforcing river 
infrastructure to 
strengthen water 
and seismic 
resilience 
Shinnakagawa river Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to seismic 
and water-resistance 
measures against storm 
surges 
Water Infrastructure 
Criteria 
4 Undergrounding 
utility poles to 
prevent collapse in 
the event of disaster 
Kanpachi dori avenue（main 
islands） 
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to 
minimized risk of utility pole 
collapse during storms  
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to protection 
of power lines from storm 
and flood damage 
Electrical Grids and 
Storage Criteria 
Wakagou Port（Izu Islands） 
 
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to 
minimized risk of utility pole 
collapse during storms  
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to protection 
of power lines from storm 
and flood damage 
Criteria for 
certification against 
the CBRT 
5 Developing and 
upgrading sediment 
disaster prevention 
and coastal 
protection facilities 
<Erosion Control Facilities> 
Ashikawa 
<Coastal Conservation> 
Sawajiri and Nagahama Coast 
<Steep Slope Collapse 
Prevention>  
Hatsuzawa 
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to controlled 
movement of unstable 
slopes 
Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to 
dissipation of wave energy 
before reaching shore 
Criteria for 
certification against 
the CBRT 
6 Renovating port 
facilities to protect   
remote islands 
vulnerable to 
natural disasters 
like typhoons and 
coastal hazards 
Toshima Reduced physical 
vulnerability due to 
strengthened coastal 
structures against storm and 
flood forces 
Criteria for 
certification against 
the CBRT 
 
Second Opinion 
 
 3/23 
■Correspondence between eligible project and the project category of the ICMA principles 
No. Eligible project Project category（GBP/SBP） 
1 Upgrading small and medium-sized rivers to 
enhance flood resilience  
Climate adaptation / Sustainable water and wastewater 
management 
2 Developing and upgrading coastal protection 
facilities for the Port of Tokyo and remote islands 
Climate adaptation 
3 Reinforcing river facilities to strengthen water 
and seismic resilience 
Climate adaptation 
4 Undergrounding utility poles to prevent collapse 
in the event of disaster  
Climate adaptation 
5 Developing and upgrading sediment disaster 
prevention and coastal protection facilities 
Climate adaptation 
6 Renovating port facilities to protect   remote 
islands vulnerable to natural disasters like 
typhoons and coastal hazards  
Access to essential services 
Affordable basic infrastructure (disaster prevention and 
mitigation measures) 
■Objectives and structure of the opinion 
The TOKYO Resilience Bond Framework is based on ICMA's Green Bond Principles, Social Bond 
Principles and Sustainability Bond Guidelines and the Climate Bonds Standard, and explains in 
accordance with the use of proceeds, project evaluation and selection process, management of proceeds 
and reporting. 
When selecting projects, the Tokyo Metropolitan Government considers both green and social projects 
to be those that target population in need of assistance due to the effects of climate change, that have 
clear expected benefits, and whose effects can be quantified. In this regard, at the request of the Tokyo 
Metropolitan Government, R&I confirmed the suitability of bonds planned to be issued under the 
framework in accordance with the Climate Bonds throughout Standard and criteria. Following the 
procedures for applying the CBS and the Climate Bond Resilience Taxonomy (CBRT), the sector-specific 
Climate Bond criteria, namely the Water Infrastructure Criteria and the Electricity Grid and Storage 
Eligibility Criteria, were applied to some projects. CBRT certification criteria were applied to the eligibility 
assessment of other projects, which are not covered by the Climate Bonds Sector Criteria. 
Hence, this report consists as follows; after providing an outline of the issuer in section 1, sections 2 to 
5 confirm compliance with the ICMA Principles and CBS in accordance with the four elements. In "2. Use 
of Proceeds," we confirm the environmental improvement effects in accordance with the Green Bond 
Principles and the social effects in accordance with the Social Principles, and confirm that for both green 
and social projects, climate change adaptation meets the requirements of the CBRT certification criteria. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Opinion 
 
 4/23 
■Resilience Finance 
 Climate bonds certified by the CBI are a financing mechanism that contributes to both climate change 
mitigation and adaptation. The CBI has set sector-specific criteria for various fields and promoted the 
certification of climate bonds. Investments in climate change adaptation measures have been made 
within these frameworks. According to the CBI, there is insufficient funding to meet the huge demand 
for adaptation measures, which cover a wide range of activities around the world. The CBI has been 
working to expand the climate bond certification framework in order to implement large-scale financing. 
 In November 2024, the CBI proposed the Climate Bonds Resilience Taxonomy (CBRT), a list of 
adaptation projects that cannot be fully covered by existing sectoral criteria. After public consultation, 
the first version of the criteria for Certification against the CBRT was finalized and published in August 
2025. In conjunction with this, the Climate Bonds Standard (CBS) was updated to version 4.3, and 
process-based evaluation criteria for climate resilience investment were newly established. Climate 
resilience investment includes both resilience-related investments that meet the CBI's sectoral criteria 
and investments that meet the CBRT certification criteria. 
 TOKYO Resilience Bond will be the first resilience bond to seek Certification under the Climate Bonds 
Standard using the Criteria for Certification against the CBRT. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investments eligible based on the CBRT must meet all of the following criteria: 
I. Substantial contribution to climate resilience 
II. Maladaptation risks are identified and managed 
III. Do no significant harm (DNSH) to climate change mitigation objectives 
 
 When assessing the eligibility of climate change adaptation measures in accordance with existing 
sectoral criteria, the eligibility criteria for mitigation measures set out in the sectoral criteria should be 
followed. 
 The term "maladaptation" in the requirements for adaptation measures refers to whether 
consideration has been given to the possibility of unintended adverse effects occurring outside the 
scope of the risk assessment of adaptation measures, given the complexity of climate and its 
impacts, and the possibility of events occurring that exceed the estimated weather conditions and 
loss and damage. 
 
 
 
CBI Sector Criteria Criteria for certification 
against the CBRT 
Climate Resilience Investment 
Second Opinion 
 
 5/23 
 
1. Outline of the Issuer 
[Tokyo Metropolitan Government：Symbol mark] 
 Tokyo is the capital of Japan and one of the world's largest cities, with a population of approximately 
14 million. 
 As interest in realizing a sustainable society grows worldwide, the situation surrounding the natural 
environment, including the worsening climate crisis, is becoming a major global issue. 
 To address this issue, the Paris Agreement was adopted, which sets a framework for climate change 
measures from 2020 onwards. It calls for not only efforts to decarbonize but also strengthening 
climate change adaptation measures and aligning financial flows with these. Various initiatives are 
also underway around the world, including the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), a set of 17 goals aimed at realizing a sustainable world. 
 In light of this, the Tokyo Metropolitan Government has formulated the "Tokyo Resilience Project," 
which presents a vision of Tokyo in the 2040s as a resilient city and sets out an enhanced set of 
an overall outline of measures. This project aims to protect the lives and livelihoods of Tokyo 
residents from wind and flood disasters that are becoming more frequent and severe due to the 
effects of climate change, while maintaining Tokyo's functions as the nation's capital and its 
economic activity as an international city. 
 Because urban resilience efforts require a significant amount of time and cost for infrastructure 
development, it is necessary to look to the future, secure solid financial resources, and work steadily 
and continuously over the medium to long term. Furthermore, measures to combat increasingly 
severe wind and flood damage are a universal issue, and it is important for the Tokyo Metropolitan 
Government to take the lead in promoting investment in climate change adaptation measures. 
Furthermore, it is necessary to publicize Tokyo's resilience practice backed by disaster resilience 
and advanced technological capabilities overseas and work to promote a resilient city of Tokyo. 
 From this perspective, TMG will issue "Tokyo Resilience Bonds" in overseas markets, with the funds 
allocated specifically to measures against wind and flood damage. By attracting funds from a diverse 
range of investors, TMG will realize a resilient and sustainable Tokyo where people can live safely 
for the next 100 years. 
  

Second Opinion 
 
 6/23 
 
2. Use of Proceeds 
The projects to which the proceeds will be allocated in accordance with the CBS will be properly listed, 
including the details described on page 1 of this document, and the cost of these investments will exceed 
the issuance amount. The eligible projects will meet the eligibility criteria for Climate Bonds Standard and 
Sector Criteria (including CBRT). Furthermore, the use of proceeds will be appropriate in light of the ICMA 
Principles, and the eligible projects will bring clear environmental and social benefits. 
(1) Eligible Projects 
 The projects to be allocated will be selected from those eligible for climate resilience investment that 
are disclosed in the TOKYO Resilience Bonds Framework. The framework discloses the project 
category, project name, issues addressed, and target population for the projects to be allocated. All 
proceeds will be used for new expenditures and will not be used to refinance existing expenditures. 
The amount of proceeds which will be allocated to projects will not duplicate the proceeds of green 
bonds, social bonds, or sustainability bonds other than this TOKYO Resilience Bond. 
 
(2) Eligibility of climate resilience investments and their environmental and social benefit 
No.1 Upgrading small and medium-sized rivers to enhance flood resilience  
＜Eligibility for climate resilience investments＞ 
■ Application of the criteria 
Substantial contribution to resilience against climate change：In recent years, the incidence of 
rainfall of 50 mm or more per hour has been on the rise in Tokyo, and flooding damage has been caused 
by localized heavy rainfall and typhoon-like rainfall with large total rainfall volumes. The target of the 
improvement work is 46 small and medium-sized rivers west of the Sumida River, covering a total of 324 
km. This river basin is one of the most urbanized areas in the world. Buildings are particularly densely 
packed along the river. The wards have many commercial buildings, as well as underground shopping 
malls and subways. In some areas, the concentration of general assets exceeds 1 trillion yen per km2. 
Since the damage caused by flooding would be extremely large, flood control measures are needed to 
deal with these heavy rains. 
Climate change scenarios for infrastructure development toward the 2040s are based on an average 
temperature rise of 2°C, in order to provide safer preparations. When calculating design rainfall, a 1.1-
fold increase in rainfall due to a 2°C rise is taken into account, based on the frequency of rainfall from 
long-term historical data. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government will also work on new methods to ensure 
that the system is effective against prolonged rainfall, such as linear rain bands that last for several hours, 
and torrential rainfall that partially exceeds 100 mm per hour. In order to respond to climate change, such 
as future increases in rainfall, we will implement efficient and effective measures to deal with increased 
Adapting measures Criteria 
Improvement of small and medium-sized rivers to 
prevent flood damage Water Infrastructure Criteria(v3.2, CBI) 
Second Opinion 
 
 7/23 
rainfall, mainly by developing regulating reservoir, etc., and by making effective use of existing stocks. 
Identifying and managing the risks of maladaptation：Based on the recognition that it is necessary to 
consider and implement adaptation measures across a wide range of fields, Tokyo will widely collect and 
analyze information on meteorological data and the impact of adaptation measures, and will work with 
each bureau to promote the "Tokyo Climate Change Adaptation Plan." With regard to rivers, the "River 
Facilities in Consideration of Climate Change" was formulated in December 2023, In addition to the "River 
Improvement Plan" that takes into account the impact on the water use of the entire river and water-
related ecosystem services, TMG will implement measures that take into account the uncertainty of the 
impact of climate change. 
DNSH against mitigation to climate change：The developed river channel and regulating reservoir are 
not expected to emit large amounts of CO2 during operation, and TMG has made efforts to save energy 
during construction to minimize the burden on the environment. Therefore, it is not expected that the 
project will result in an increase in CO2 emissions. 
 
＜Environmental benefit and relationship with SDGs goal＞ 
 In recent years, torrential rains exceeding the planned scale have caused extensive damage 
throughout Japan, and the incidence of rainfall of 50 mm or more per hour has been increasing in 
Tokyo. Under these circumstances, there is concern about the increased risk of wind and flood 
damage due to increased rainfall and rising sea levels associated with the effects of future climate 
change. 
 In December 2023, the TMG formulated “River Facilities in Light of Climate Change” and raise the 
target maintenance level for small and medium-sized rivers to an annual exceedance probability of 
5 percent* of rainfall in light of climate change, to strengthen flood countermeasures while 
considering priority. 
*“An annual exceedance probability of 5 percent” indicates a 5% chance of rainfall exceeding certain 
magnitude occurring each year. 
 Specifically, the TMG will develop the river revetment, while using flood control reservoirs, etc. to 
protect an area where rainfall can exceed 50 mm per hour. 
 The table below shows contributions of the eligible project to SDGs in accordance with ICMA's table 
of mapping between project categories and SDGs. The correspondence between the allocated 
projects and the SDGs is as follows: It is believed that the projects will contribute to priority issue 4, 
"Development of a sustainable and resilient nation and high-quality infrastructure," outlined in the 
"SDGs Action Plan 2023" aimed at achieving the Japanese government's SDGs. 
 
SDGs Goal  
  
11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting and 
implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation 
and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line 
with the *Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, holistic disaster risk 
management at all levels 

Second Opinion 
 
 8/23 
  13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies, and planning 
 
No.2 Developing and upgrading coastal protection facilities for the Port of Tokyo and remote 
islands  
＜Eligibility for climate resilience investments＞ 
■ Application of the criteria 
 
Substantial contribution to resilience against climate change：The targets of the improvement work 
include seawalls, floodgates, internal revetments, drainage pumping stations, and levees and revetment 
facilities along the coast of Tokyo Port. Due to its topography, the coastal areas of Tokyo are susceptible 
to the effects of high tides caused by typhoons and large waves due to wind direction, and have 
experienced a lot of flooding damage in the past. Furthermore, there are concerns about the impact of 
rising mean sea levels and stronger typhoons due to future climate change on coastal areas. Tokyo Port 
has developed as a trading port, so there are many wharves and warehouses along the coast, but inside 
the bay road there is a dense mix of residential, commercial and public facilities. 
The Koto, Chuo, Minato, and Konan districts have a large number of households, and residential 
development is also progressing in the Toyosu, Harumi, and Ariake Kita districts, with over 300,000 
households living along the coast. Of these, the Koto district, where nearly 100,000 households live, is 
located in the zero-meter zone, which is below sea level at high tide. The island areas have little habitable 
land, and the population is concentrated on the flat areas behind ports, fishing ports, and the surrounding 
coastlines. 
Climate change scenarios for infrastructure development toward the 2040s are based on an average 
temperature rise of 2°C, in order to provide greater safety. Average sea levels along the Tokyo Bay coast 
are assumed to rise by 60cm, and storm surges and wave heights are estimated by analyzing the path 
of a typhoon with a central pressure of 930hPa (Ise Bay Typhoon 940hPa) heading toward Tokyo Bay. 
The planned rainfall volume takes into account a 1.1-fold change in the event of a 2°C rise. Because the 
geographical characteristics of the islands are different from those of the Tokyo Bay coast, analysis of 
large-scale typhoon data was conducted separately under the same climate change scenario to estimate 
changes in sea level rise, storm surge deviation, and wave height. 
At Tokyo Port, seawalls will be raised in stages, starting with areas where they are no longer high enough. 
Additionally, in anticipation of flooding due to high tides, flood-resistant measures will be implemented, 
such as installing electrical and mechanical equipment at floodgates and pumping stations at a height 
higher than the planned high tide level. To prevent inland flooding due to increased rainfall when the 
floodgates are closed, the pumps at pumping stations will be increased to strengthen their drainage 
capacity. The above facilities will be reinforced not only to be water-resistant but also earthquake-resistant. 
Taking into account that sea levels on islands will rise over the years, the state of each coast will be 
Adapting measures Criteria 
Development of port facilities to prevent flood 
damage Water Infrastructure Criteria(v3.2, CBI) 

Second Opinion 
 
 9/23 
checked and countermeasures prioritized. In addition to raising seawalls, measures such as the 
installation of offshore breakwaters and beach nourishment will be implemented in combination with other 
measures depending on the coastal usage environment. 
Identifying and managing the risks of maladaptation：Based on the recognition that it is necessary to 
consider and implement adaptation measures across a wide range of fields, Tokyo will widely collect and 
analyze information on meteorological data and the impacts of adaptation measures, and will work with 
each bureau to promote the "Tokyo Climate Change Adaptation Plan." Regarding coastal conservation in 
port areas, measures will be implemented taking into account the uncertainty of the impacts of climate 
change, based on the "Tokyo Bay Coastal Conservation Master Plan [Tokyo Section]" and the "Izu-
Ogasawara Islands Coastal Conservation Master Plan." 
DNSH against mitigation to climate change：The developed projects are not expected to emit large 
amounts of CO2 during operation, and TMG has made efforts to save energy during construction to 
minimize the burden on the environment. 
＜Environmental benefit and relationship with SDGs goal＞ 
 The TMG revised the “Tokyo Bay Coastal Protection Master Plan [for the Tokyo Metropolis section]” 
In March 2023, and the “Izu-Ogasawara Islands Coastal and Estuarine Conservation Basic Plan” in 
March 2025 in line with the national policy for dealing with the effects of climate change.  
 In consideration of storm surges caused by typhoons comparable to the Isewan typhoon, as well as 
a sea level rise when assuming a 2 degree rise in future temperatures due to climate change, 
seawalls will be raised in stages. In addition, assuming a 1.1-fold increase in rainfall due to climate 
change, drainage pump stations will be expanded to prevent flooding of canals when sluice gates 
are closed. 
 The coasts of the Izu and Ogasawara Islands are affected by waves due to their location facing the 
open ocean, proximity to typhoon passage courses, and strong winter monsoons, etc. The coast is 
divided into zones characterized by “protection,” “environment,” and “use,” and medium- to long-term 
coastal development is carried out in consideration of the characteristics of each area. 
 The table below shows contributions of the eligible project to SDGs in accordance with ICMA's table 
of mapping between project categories and SDGs. The correspondence between the allocated 
projects and the SDGs is as follows: It is believed that the projects will contribute to priority issue 4, 
"Development of a sustainable and resilient nation and high-quality infrastructure," outlined in the 
"SDGs Action Plan 2023" aimed at achieving the Japanese government's SDGs. 
 
SDGs goal  
  
11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting and 
implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation 
and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line 
with the *Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, holistic disaster risk 
management at all levels 

Second Opinion 
 
 10/23 
  
13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
 
No.3 Reinforcing river facilities to strengthen water and seismic resilience 
＜Eligibility for climate resilience investments＞ 
■ Application of the criteria 
Substantial contribution to resilience against climate change：The project for improvement are river 
facilities in the eastern lowlands where the ground level is lower than the high tide level and where 
flooding might occur, but which do not have sufficient earthquake resistance for now and would suffer 
major flood damage if damaged. The eastern lowlands are a zero-meter zone below sea level at high 
tide, and until around the 1950s, they frequently experienced major flooding. However, with the 
development of levees, floodgates, drainage pumping stations, and other facilities, no major floods have 
occurred in recent years. However, if these facilities are damaged by an earthquake, the fragile terrain 
remains at risk of widespread flooding. On the other hand, it is expected that the frequency of flooding 
will increase due to rising mean sea levels and stronger typhoons caused by climate change. Areas lower 
than the high tides caused by typhoons and other events account for approximately 40% of the total area 
of Tokyo's special wards, and 20% are at zero meters above sea level, with approximately 1.5 million 
people living in these areas. 
Earthquake and water resistance measures are being implemented in stages, starting with the sections 
of low ground where levee and revetments are located, and for floodgates and drainage pumping stations, 
measures are being implemented starting with the highest priority facilities, taking into consideration the 
possibility of damage from an earthquake and the impact if they lose their function due to damage. 
Regarding levees, in addition to reinforcing concrete levees, ground improvements are made to prevent 
earthen embankments from sinking. At the floodgates, electrical and mechanical equipment will be 
installed higher than the planned high tide level in anticipation of flooding due to high tides. At the drainage 
pumping station, renovations will be carried out to prevent water from entering through openings. Through 
this project, we will prepare for the largest typhoons and earthquakes, and protect the lives and property 
of Tokyo residents from flooding. 
Identifying and managing the risks of maladaptation：Based on the recognition that it is necessary to 
consider and implement adaptation measures across a variety of fields, Tokyo will widely collect and 
analyze information such as meteorological data and the impact of adaptation measures, and will work 
with each bureau to promote the Tokyo Climate Change Adaptation Plan. With regard to rivers, the "River 
Facilities in Consideration of Climate Change" was formulated in December 2023. In addition to the "River 
Improvement Plan" that takes into account the impact on the water use of the entire river and water-
related ecosystem services, TMG will implement measures that take into account the uncertainty of the 
impact of climate change. 
Adapting measures Criteria 
Development of river facilities to prevent storm 
surge damage Water Infrastructure Criteria(v3.2, CBI) 

Second Opinion 
 
 11/23 
DNSH against mitigation to climate change：The developed projects are not expected to emit large 
amounts of CO2 during operation, and TMG has made efforts to save energy during construction to 
minimize the burden on the environment. 
<Environmental benefit and relationship with SDGs goal> 
 Large rivers such as the Sumida River, Arakawa River, and Nakagawa River, along with their 
tributaries and offshoots, crisscross the lowlands known as Tokyo's eastern lowlands.  
 In order to protect these areas from storm surges of the same magnitude (930 hPa) as those caused 
by the Ise Bay Typhoon, taking climate change into consideration, various projects are being 
implemented on rivers including the construction of seismic and flood-resistant river facilities such 
as sluice gates and drainage pumping stations. 
 The table below shows contributions of the eligible project to SDGs in accordance with ICMA's table 
of mapping between project categories and SDGs. The correspondence between the allocated 
projects and the SDGs is as follows: It is believed that the projects will contribute to priority issue 4, 
"Development of a sustainable and resilient nation and high-quality infrastructure," outlined in the 
"SDGs Action Plan 2023" aimed at achieving the Japanese government's SDGs. 
 
SDGs Goal  
  
111.7 By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive and accessible, green and public 
spaces, in particular for women and children, older persons and persons with disabilities 
11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting and 
implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation 
and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line 
with the *Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, holistic disaster risk 
management at all levels 
  13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning 
 
No.4 Undergrounding utility poles to prevent collapse in the event of disaster  
＜Eligibility for climate resilience investments＞ 
■ Application of the criteria 
Substantial contribution to resilience against climate change：There are concerns that typhoons will 
become increasingly larger due to the effects of climate change. There are approximately 52,200, utility 
poles in Tokyo, and when a large typhoon knocks them down or cuts the power lines, roads are blocked. 
This could result in significant disruptions to the movement of residents, emergency response efforts in 
Adapting measure Criteria 
Removing utility poles in Tokyo (excluding 
islands) 
Electrical Grids and Storage Criteria(March 2022, 
CBI) 
Removing utility poles in island areas Criteria for certification against the CBRT(August 
2025, CBI) 

Second Opinion 
 
 12/23 
the event of a disaster, and the transportation of emergency supplies. Measures are being implemented 
to promote the removal of utility poles, which involves storing the power lines strung across roads 
underground, thereby preventing the collapse of utility poles due to typhoons and strengthening disaster 
prevention functions. The project (excluding islands) meets the eligibility requirement of the Grids Criteria 
as more than 67% of newly connected generation capacity is below the threshold of 100g CO2e/kWh. 
The project in island areas meets the requirements of the Criteria for Certification under the CBRT. 
 
While laying power lines underground can prevent damage from strong winds from typhoons and other 
weather disasters, it also increases the possibility of damage from prolonged flooding and the time 
required to repair damage. Tokyo is implementing measures in line with the Tokyo Resilience Project as 
an initiative for all areas at high risk of wind and flood damage. 
Identifying and managing the risks of maladaptation：Based on the recognition that it is necessary to 
consider and implement adaptation measures across a variety of fields in a cross-sectional manner, 
Tokyo will widely collect and analyze information on meteorological data and the impact of adaptation 
measures, and will work with each bureau to promote the "Tokyo Climate Change Adaptation Plan." 
Changing the power transmission and distribution grid from overhead lines to underground lines has 
disadvantages, such as the time required to restore functionality in the event of damage and reduced 
flexibility in the design and construction of urban infrastructure other than the power transmission and 
distribution grid. Taking these disadvantages into consideration, plans are made for the design and 
implementation of grid-off grids that take into account the urban functions and geographical conditions of 
each region. The prerequisites for the plan are clarified, and a system is in place to review assumptions 
and responses through weather data monitoring, etc. 
DNSH against mitigation to climate change：Decarbonizing the power supply to the industrial, 
commercial, and transportation sectors is a major challenge nationwide, including in Tokyo, and the 
development of carbon-free power sources is underway in various places. On the four islands of Honshu, 
there is a system of mutual cooperation between electricity transmission and distribution companies, and 
the proportion of new connections to carbon-free power sources is increasing overall. Promoting the 
removal of utility poles does not hinder efforts to mitigate climate change. Even in islands not connected 
to the four main islands of Honshu by power lines, Tokyo is promoting decarbonization based on the 
"Zero Emission Tokyo Strategy." The city is promoting efforts to become a zero-carbon island to avoid 
carbon lock-in from fossil fuel-based power generation. It is also working to conserve energy during 
construction work to minimize the burden on the environment. 
＜Environmental benefit and relationship with SDGs goal＞ 
 In Tokyo, many utility poles were erected after the war to meet the rapidly increasing demand for 
electricity and communications. As a result, in natural disasters such as large-scale earthquakes and 
typhoons, fallen utility poles can block roads and cause power outages and communications 
disruptions, hindering evacuation and emergency response efforts, and causing power outages and 
communications disruptions. This calls for the elimination of utility poles to strengthen disaster 
prevention functions. 
 Specific measures include placing electric wires underground by building utility trenches, etc. In 
addition to major roads such as Kanpachi Dori, priority will be given to emergency transport roads in 
Second Opinion 
 
 13/23 
the Tokyo port area, such as Oi and Aomi, which will contribute particularly to strengthening disaster 
prevention capabilities. 
 Table below shows contributions of the eligible projects to SDGs in accordance with ICMA’s table of 
mapping between project categories and SDGs. The correspondence between the allocated projects 
and the SDGs is as follows: It is believed that the projects will contribute to priority issue 4, "Development 
of a sustainable and resilient nation and high-quality infrastructure," outlined in the "SDGs Action Plan 
2023" aimed at achieving the Japanese government's SDGs. 
 
SDGs Goal  
   
11.7 By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive and accessible, green and public 
spaces, in particular for women and children, older persons and persons with disabilities 
  13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning 
 
No.5 Developing and upgrading sediment disaster prevention and coastal protection facilities  
＜Eligibility for climate resilience investments＞ 
■ Application of the criteria 
Substantial contribution to resilience against climate change：The targets of the development are 
mainly the mountains and hills in the Tama area of Tokyo and general coastlines (excluding ports and 
fishing ports) on islands. This project meets the requirements of the Criteria for Certification under the 
CBRT. 
In the Tama region, residential development is progressing around mountain streams and on the slopes 
of hills. Due to the effects of climate change, the number of heavy rainfalls exceeding 50 mm per hour in 
Tokyo has been increasing in recent years, increasing the risk of homes being hit by landslides As of the 
end of October 2020, 1,987 mountain streams in Tokyo are at risk of debris flow, 30 are at risk of 
landslides, and 13,461 are at risk of steep slope collapse. To protect human life and property in these 
vulnerable locations, facilities such as sabo dams and mountain stream conservation works will be 
constructed to prevent debris flow disasters. In addition, facilities to stabilize slopes, such as retaining 
walls, drainage facilities, and crib works, will be constructed to prevent landslides. As of the end of 
October 2020, 1,987 mountain streams in Tokyo are at risk of debris flow, 30 are at risk of landslides, and 
Adapting measure Criteria 
Development of landslide prevention facilities 
and coastal protection facilities to prevent and 
mitigate damage from landslides caused by 
climate change 
Criteria for certification against the CBRT(August 
2025, CBI) 

Second Opinion 
 
 14/23 
13,461 are at risk of steep slope collapse. To protect human life and property in these vulnerable locations, 
facilities such as sabo dams and mountain stream conservation works will be constructed to prevent 
debris flow disasters. In addition, facilities to stabilize slopes, such as retaining walls, drainage facilities, 
and crib works, will be constructed to prevent landslides. 
The coasts of the Izu Islands are facing the open ocean, are close to the typhoon route, and are subject 
to strong winter monsoons, which causes waves to surge and cause erosion. The topography of these 
islands is steep, and residents live on the small amount of flat land facing the coast, exposing them to 
the dangers of high tides, waves, and erosion. Changes in meteorological and oceanographic conditions 
and a long-term rise in average sea level due to climate change will increase the risk of ground collapse 
due to coastal erosion, and the intrusion of high tides and waves. Climate change scenarios are based 
on an average temperature rise of 2°C. Under this scenario, analysis of large-scale typhoon data is being 
conducted in island areas to estimate sea level rise, high tide deviation, and changes in wave behavior. 
Taking into account local conditions, measures such as raising seawalls and constructing offshore 
breakwaters will be implemented. 
Identifying and managing the risks of maladaptation：Based on the recognition that it is necessary to 
consider and implement adaptation measures across a wide range of fields, Tokyo will widely collect and 
analyze information such as meteorological data and the impact of adaptation measures, and will work 
with each bureau to promote the "Tokyo Climate Change Adaptation Plan." Regarding the conservation 
of general coastlines in island areas, measures will be implemented taking into account the uncertainty 
of the impact of climate change, based on the "Izu-Ogasawara Islands Coastal Conservation Basic Plan." 
DNSH against mitigation to climate change：The developed disaster prevention facility are not 
expected to emit large amounts of CO2 during operation, and TMG has made efforts to save energy 
during construction to minimize the burden on the environment. 
＜Environmental benefit and relationship with SDGs goal＞ 
 In terms of countermeasures against sediment disasters, the TMG has systematically developed 
erosion control facilities, taking into consideration the location of disaster, as well as the importance 
of the conservation target (evacuation centers, facilities for people requiring special care, etc.) and 
the risk of disaster occurrence (whether in a landslide disaster warning area or a special warning 
area). Besides erosion control projects (to prevent mudslides), hard measures include landslide 
control projects, and steep slope collapse control projects (to prevent landslides). 
 To mitigate the sediment deposition and sediment discharge that can cause disasters in designated 
erosion control areas where mudslides may occur, erosion control measures include construction of 
erosion control weirs and stream protection works, while imposing restrictions on land excavation, 
embankment, and cutting of trees. 
 Landslide control projects focus on areas with particularly high risk or important conservation facilities 
designated as landslide control zones, and landslide control facilities such as deterrent piles and 
water catchment facilities are constructed. 
 In TMG, steep slopes (cliffs) are distributed in the forests of the Nishitama region and along the 
Musashino Plateau terrace, and there are areas throughout the TMG that are vulnerable to damage 
from the collapse of steep slopes. To protect residents’ lives from a collapse of steep slopes 
Second Opinion 
 
 15/23 
(landslides) caused by typhoons and torrential rains, the TMG executes collapse prevention works 
and implements other measures to prevent slope collapses. 
 To protect the national land and coastal environment from waves of typhoons and monsoons, areas 
with a high risk of wave damage and 26 coasts with significant coastal erosion (about 46 km in total) 
are designated as coastal protection areas, where coastal protection facilities such as seawalls and 
artificial reefs have been constructed. 
 The table below shows contributions of the eligible project to SDGs in accordance with ICMA's table 
of mapping between project categories and SDGs. The correspondence between the allocated 
projects and the SDGs is as follows: It is believed that the projects will contribute to priority issue 4, 
"Development of a sustainable and resilient nation and high-quality infrastructure," outlined in the 
"SDGs Action Plan 2023" aimed at achieving the Japanese government's SDGs. 
 
SDGs Goal  
  
11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting and 
implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation 
and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line 
with the *Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, holistic disaster risk 
management at all levels 
  13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning 
 
No.6 Renovating port facilities to protect remote islands vulnerable to natural disasters like 
typhoons and coastal hazards  
＜Eligibility for climate resilience investments＞ 
■ Application of the criteria 
Substantial contribution to resilience against climate change：The objectives of the improvement 
work are to ensure the safety of ships, prevent flooding of public sheds, and prevent damage to wharf 
facilities. Toshima, where the project is scheduled to be carried out this fiscal year, is an isolated island 
with a population of around 300 people, part of the Izu Islands, which are scattered across the Pacific 
Ocean about 100 to 600 km from Tokyo. The island is one of the windiest areas in the country, and is 
prone to the effects of high waves, causing damage from typhoons. Ports are essential lifelines for the 
supply of goods and the movement of people on remote islands, and their vulnerability to meteorological 
disasters must be improved. To achieve this, breakwaters will be constructed to ensure calm within the 
port and improve waterways and anchorages to prevent damage from strong winds and waves from ships 
moored within the port or ships entering and leaving the port. Signs and radios will also be installed to 
Adapting measures Criteria 
Development of port facilities to prevent damage 
from storms and high tides caused by climate 
change 
Criteria for certification against the CBRT(August 
2025, CBI) 

Second Opinion 
 
 16/23 
guide ships to safety. To prevent flooding of the shed, the site will be developed taking into consideration 
high tides and wind waves, and wavebreak doors will be installed at the entrances and exits. The project 
will also protect the machinery and terminals necessary for loading and unloading operations at the wharf 
from damage caused by wind and waves. It will also protect the islanders' lifeline from the strong winds 
and waves brought by increasingly large typhoons. This project meets the requirements of the Criteria 
for Certification under the CBRT 
Identifying and managing the risks of maladaptation：Based on the recognition that it is necessary to 
consider and implement adaptation measures across a variety of fields, Tokyo will widely collect and 
analyze information such as meteorological data and the impact of adaptation measures, and will work 
with each bureau to promote the Tokyo Climate Change Adaptation Plan. 
DNSH against mitigation to climate change：The developed facilities are not expected to emit large 
amounts of CO2 during operation, and TMG has made efforts to save energy during construction to 
minimize the burden on the environment. 
＜Social benefit and relationship with SDGs＞ 
 Ports, harbors, and fishing ports in the remote islands of the Izu and Ogasawara island chains will 
be developed as shown below, to help improve residents' lives and promote industries in accordance 
with the Priority Plan for Social Infrastructure Development, among others, reflecting the actual local 
situations. 
 For remote islands, ports and harbors are not only a base for transportation of people and goods but 
also a main entrance to the island that serves as key facilities directly affecting the economy, culture, 
medical care and other vital aspects for islanders as well as their industrial base. Therefore, Tokyo 
Metropolitan Govt. will increase the in-service rate of liners by developing mooring facilities, 
waterway infrastructure and protective harbor installations and enhancing the functions of existing 
facilities, and also increase the safety and efficiency of boarding and disembarkation and cargo 
handling. 
 Port projects will directly benefit local residents and other people who use port facilities, improving 
convenience for users and contributing to reducing the burden on Tokyo residents by maintaining 
and extending the lifespan of necessary infrastructure. As described below, there are no particular 
negative aspects to the project. R&I has assessed that the project will produce positive outcomes for 
society as a whole. 
 The table below shows contributions of the eligible project to SDGs in accordance with ICMA's table 
of mapping between project categories and SDGs. The correspondence between the allocated 
projects and the SDGs is as follows: It is believed that the projects will contribute to priority issue 4, 
"Development of a sustainable and resilient nation and high-quality infrastructure," outlined in the 
"SDGs Action Plan 2023" aimed at achieving the Japanese government's SDGs. 
 
SDGs Goal  
  
9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and 
transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a 
focus on affordable and equitable access for all 

Second Opinion 
 
 17/23 
  
11.7 By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive and accessible, green and public 
spaces, in particular for women and children, older persons and persons with disabilities 
 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning 
 
3. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
Environmental and social objectives, criteria, a decision-making process for evaluation and selection, 
and a process for identifying, mitigating and managing environmental and social risks have been defined. 
A process is in place to select projects that give due consideration to the environment and society. The 
process for project evaluation and selection is appropriate in light of CBS as well as the ICMA principles. 
(1) Decision-Making Process for Evaluation and Selection 
 Eligible projects for TOKYO Resilience Bond funding in a fiscal year are selected through an 
evaluation of their eligibility based on criteria covering environmental, social and governance aspects, 
which are listed in the table below, while also confirming the social issues they address. In addition, 
to mitigate environmental and social risks associated with  project implementation, confirmation is 
made that the following measures have been taken. 
- Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and implementation of environmental impact 
assessments where necessary. 
- Provision of adequate explanations to local residents 
- Eco-friendly procurement of materials, implementation of measures for environmentally hazardous 
substances, waste management and occupational safety considerations 
■Criteria for the Evaluation & Selection of Eligible Projects 
No. Evaluation 
Aspects 
Evaluation 
Items Perspective 
E-1 Environmental Clarity of positive 
impact 
The project’s positive environmental outcomes are 
clear and/or can be quantitatively measured. 
E-2 Environmental Reduction of 
negative impact 
Measures are in place to mitigate the negative 
impacts of the project. 
S-1 Social Clarity of positive 
impact 
The project’s positive social outcomes are clear 
and/or can be quantitatively measured. 
S-2 Social Reduction of 
negative impact 
Measures are in place to mitigate the negative 
impacts of the project. 
G-1 Governance Policy & 
regulatory 
compliance 
The project’s plan complies with laws and 
guidelines such as Tokyo 2050 strategy and 
Japan’s Local Government Finance Act. 

Second Opinion 
 
 18/23 
G-2 Governance Feasibility 
/urgency 
Special note is made of the feasibility and urgency 
of the project. 
G-3 Governance Effect 
sustainability 
The positive environmental/social outcomes of the 
project will be sustainable. 
 
（２）  Process for Identifying, Mitigating and Managing Environmental and Social Risks 
 For green projects, the evaluation process confirms a project’s alignment with the promotion of 
climate change adaptation set out in the Tokyo Environmental Master Plan (September 2022) . 
Priority is especially given to E-1 and E-2(environmental aspects) as listed in the table above. 
 For social projects, the evaluation process confirms the social issues arising from climate change 
that the project addresses, and priority is especially given to S-1 and S-2 (social aspects) as listed 
in the table above. 
 In all cases, the evaluation also considers whether the project targets individuals in need of support 
due to the impacts of climate change, and whether the project is expected to yield clear benefits 
(generating new benefits or maintaining existing benefits) whose effects can be quantitatively 
measured. 
 
（3） Evaluation and Selection Procedures and Division of Roles 
 The Bureau of Finance requests the relevant bureaus to identify projects that could be eligible for 
TOKYO Resilience Bond funding. 
 The relevant bureaus confirm projects that meet the requirements of TOKYO Resilience Bond 
funding and submit information on these potential projects to the Bureau of Finance. 
 The Bureau of Finance examines the content of the projects and narrows down the list of potential 
eligible projects. 
 The Bureau of Finance evaluates each of the projects. In the evaluation, based on information 
submitted on a project, it is confirmed that the project addresses an environmental or social issue 
and evaluations are conducted using criteria such as eligibility from the environmental, social and 
governance aspects. The Bureau also confirms the measures to mitigate environmental and social 
risks associated with the implementation. 
 The Bureau of Finance selects candidate projects. 
 The Bureau of Environment reviews candidate projects from an environmental standpoint. 
 The Bureau of Finance selects the projects to be allocated funds (and notifies the relevant bureaus 
of their decision). 
 
 
 
 
Second Opinion 
 
 19/23 
Evaluation and Selection Flow for Eligible Projects 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Source: TOKYO Resilience Bonds Framework] 
 
（4） Monitoring 
 In cooperation with the bureaus and other parties, confirmation that the projects are properly 
implemented will be made at least once during the following fiscal year. Should any problems arise, 
the situation will be discussed with the relevant bureau and action will be taken promptly to improve 
the situation. 
 
Bureau of Finance Relevant Bureaus  
(Coordinate) 
(Notify) 
Bureau of 
Environment 
➁ Submit information on projects confirmed as eligible for Resilience Bond funding 
➀ Request identification of projects eligible for Resilience Bond funding 
③ Examine & narrow down the list of potential eligible projects 
⑦ Select projects 
scheduled for 
allocation 
④ Evaluate the 
projects 
➄ Select 
candidate 
projects ⑥ Review 
candidate 
projects 
 
Second Opinion 
 
 20/23 
4. Management of Proceeds 
The method of tracking proceeds for their allocation to projects of TOKYO resilience bond and the 
method of managing unallocated proceeds have been identified. The management is appropriate in 
light of CBS as well as the ICMA principles. 
 Local governments must cover the expenditures of each fiscal year with revenues of the same fiscal 
year. Therefore, in principle, all proceeds of the TOKYO Resilience Bonds are allocated to eligible 
projects within the same fiscal year. Prior to the bond issuance, the Bureau of Finance will determine 
the projects intended for allocation and the respective allocation amounts they will be allocated shall 
be determined after confirmation of their implementation status, etc. by the Bureau of Finance with 
the bureau responsible for the project, and will be disclosed before the issuance of the bonds. 
 The Bureau of Finance manages the progress of the projects so that the situation of TOKYO 
Resilience Bonds fund allocation can be tracked when necessary. In the following fiscal year、the 
Bureau confirms that all proceeds have been allocated to the projects, and discloses this information 
based on the methods of “Reporting.” 
 After the TOKYO Resilience Bonds are issued, the proceeds will be managed by classifying them 
into accounting categories based on the TMG’s budget rules to clarify their use. Until the proceeds 
are allocated, they will be managed under the TMG Public Money Management Policy. Moreover, at 
the end of each fiscal year, for all revenue and expenditures, including those related to projects 
funded by the TOKYO Resilience Bonds, settlement-related documents will be prepared and 
submitted to the Tokyo Metropolitan Audit and Inspection Commissioners for their inspection. The 
documents will be submitted together with the comments of the commissioners’ opinion, will be 
submitted to the Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly for certification. Consequently, R&I considers that the 
proceeds will be managed appropriately. 
 
5. Reporting 
The timing, method and items of disclosure (reporting) have been specified. The environmental benefit 
indicators for green projects and the social benefit indicators for social projects are consistent with the 
environmental and social objectives. The reporting is appropriate in light of CBS as well as the ICMA 
principles. 
(1) Overview of Disclosure 
 By the end of the fiscal year following the year the Tokyo Resilience Bonds were issued, the 
outcomes of and other information regarding the projects to which the proceeds were allocated will 
be disclosed. Specifically, the information will be disclosed on the TMG website through the following 
procedures. 
- The Bureau of Finance confirms the expenditures status of projects scheduled for allocation with 
the relevant bureaus. 
- The Bureau of Finance finalizes the breakdown of the allocated proceeds of the Tokyo Resilience 
Bond. 
- The outcomes of the allocation are compiled and the impact report is prepared. These are disclosed 
on the TMG website. 
- If TOKYO Resilience Bond proceeds will be allocated to a single project over multiple fiscal years, 
Second Opinion 
 
 21/23 
related information will also be disclosed. 
 
Content Timing 
TOKYO Resilience Bonds Framework At all time 
Details of the decision on projects to be allocated 
proceeds 
-  Project category 
-  Project name 
-  Expected impact 
-  Amount or percentage to be allocated  
Before issuance 
Project allocation outcomes and impact report 
-  Project category 
-  Project name 
-  Impact 
-  Amount allocated 
Fiscal year 
following 
issuance 
Details of any significant events such as a change in a 
project scheduled for allocation 
Upon occurrence 
of an event 
 
(2) Environment and Social Benefit Indicators 
 
No. Project 
Category(TMG) Eligible Project Reporting Items 
１ To prevent flooding 
caused by heavy rain, 
and storm surges, 
and other related 
hazards to the 
greatest extent 
possible 
Upgrading small and medium-sized rivers 
to enhance flood resilience 
Completion of river 
development(%), 
Storage capacity of 
regulating reservoirs (㎥) 
2 Developing and upgrading coastal 
protection facilities for the Port of Tokyo 
and remote islands 
Length completed (km), 
Number of structures 
developed 
3 Reinforcing river facilities to strengthen 
water and seismic resilience 
Length completed (km) 
4 To prevent damage 
from strong winds 
and heavy rain 
caused by typhoons 
and other severe 
Undergrounding utility poles to prevent 
collapse in the event of a disaster 
Length completed (km),  
Number of airports 
upgraded, 
Number of ports 
upgraded 
Second Opinion 
 
 22/23 
 
No. Category(TMG) Eligible Projects Reporting Items 
6 To prevent damage from 
strong winds and heavy rain 
caused by typhoons and 
other severe storms 
Renovating port facilities to protect   
remote islands vulnerable to 
typhoons and coastal hazards  
Number of ports 
upgraded 
5 storms Developing and upgrading sediment 
disaster prevention and coastal protection 
facilities  
Number of structures 
developed/upgraded  
Second Opinion 
 
 
 23/23