Pre-Issuance Verification Report
for the First Bond under Huadian
New Energy Group Corporation
Limited Climate Bonds Program
iGreenBank (Beijing) Investment Service Co., Ltd
August 17, 2023

Table of Contents
1. SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES......................................................................................................1
2. DISCLAIMER......................................................................................................................... 1
3. COMPLIANCE EVALUATION AND QUALITY CONTROL..............................................................1
4. THE ISSUER’S RESPONSIBILITY ............................................................................................1
5. VERIFIER’S RESPONSIBILITY .................................................................................................2
6. WORK UNDERTAKEN............................................................................................................2
7. VERIFICATION TEAM ............................................................................................................. 4
8. VERIFICATION OPINION.........................................................................................................4
ABOUT IGREENBANK............................................................................................................... 5
ANNEX 1. CONFORMANCE TO THE PRE-ISSUANCE CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE CBS6
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
1
1. Scope and Objectives
Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited (“the Issuer” or “Huadian New
Energy”) is considering the issuance of the first Bond under the Huadian New Energy
Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program (“the Program”) following the
requirements of Climate Bonds Standard Version 3 and Version 4 (the “CBS”).
iGreenBank (Beijing) Investment Service Co., Ltd (“iGreenbank”) has been
commissioned by Huadian New Energy to perform the pre-issuance verification of
the first Bond issuance under the Program as an independent verifier approved by
CBI under the CBS.
2. Disclaimer
The verification was carried out on and before August 16, 2023 and no assessment
was performed after that date. The verification opinion is based on information
provided by the Issuer and the Issuer is responsible for the integrity, accuracy and
timeliness of the information. This report is prepared solely for the purpose of
assessing the conformance of the first Bond issuance under the Program to the CBS.
No interest of any other party has been considered in the report.
This report is made solely to the lssuer in accordance with the agreed term of
disclosure arrangement and then provided to the CBS Secretariat as part of the
Certification Process. The verification opinion shall not be interpreted as any
indication or guarantee for relevant bond investment decisions. In no case may the
opinion hereof operate as the interpretation or guarantee for economic performance
or credit rating of the bonds under the Program.
3. Compliance Evaluation and Quality Control
The verification team has performed verification in accordance with the CBS and
complied with the independence and quality control requirements of the assurance
approach which is in line with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
3000 (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information. The verification team has the competency and
experience required for this assurance engagement.
4. The Issuer’s Responsibility
Huadian New Energy is responsible for providing accurate information and
documentation relating to the green bond issuance and nominated project details,
including description of projects, total development cost of each project and use of
proceeds, and for generating the Pre-Issuance Disclosure Documentation for the
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
2
First Bond under Climate Bonds Program of Huadian New Energy Group Corporation
Limited (“the Disclosure Documentation")1.
5. Verifier’s responsibility
iGreenBank conducted the pre-issuance verification in accordance with the CBS and
the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000):
Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information.
iGreenbank is not responsible for any aspects of investment or financing decision
other than the assessment of the alignment of the bond issuance with the CBS and
sector eligibility criteria. The iGreenbank shall not be held liable if any of the
information or data provided by the Issuer and used as a basis for this assessment
was not correct or complete.
6. Work Undertaken
The verification team has reviewed information provided by the Issuer about the
Project Approvals from DRC, EIA Approvals and Land Use Approvals of the
nominated projects listed in the Appendix 1 of the Disclosure Documentation, the
Feasibility Study Report of nominated projects of first Bond The verification team
conducted interview with the management team of the Issuer and communication
with relevant staff to verify the conformance of the first Bond issuance under the
Program with the requirements of the CBS from July 25, 2023 to August 16, 2023.
The core subject matters for the assurance of the Bond issuance are the following:
 Use of Proceeds,
 Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets,
 Management of Proceeds,
 Reporting Prior to Issuance,
 Sector Eligibility Criteria.
The first Bond issuance involoved a total of 13 projects, 10 onshore solar power
projects and 3 onshore wind power projects (“the nominated projects”) listing as
Appendix 1 in Disclosure Documentation. Among them, the “Tianjin Huadian Haijing
1000MW Solar Power Farm Project” comes from the pool of Program, and remaining
nominated projects of first Bond are new projects. Except the “Tianjin Huadian
Haijing 1000MW Solar Power Farm Project”, the rest will still be kept the same as
proposed nominated projects of the pool of Program for the follow-up bond issuance.
1 A Disclosure Documentation is the documentation associated with the issuance of a bond, prepared
before a bond is issued and made available to potential investors as per Section 4.2 of CBS Version 3.0.
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
3
According to the Green Bond Framework of Huadian New Energy Group Corporation
Limited (“the Framework”) and the Disclosure Documentation provided by Huadian
New Energy, the nominated projects & assets and proposed nominated projects on
which the net proceeds will be allocated fall under the following Sectors as per the
CBS:
 Onshore Solar Energy
 Onshore Wind Energy
Summary of the verification procedure is shown in the following table:
CBS
Item
CBS
Requirement
Verification Procedures
1 Use of Proceeds Reviewed the Framework and the Disclosure Documentation for the use of proceeds
on Nominated Projects & Assets.
10 onshore solar and 3 onshore wind power generation projects are listed as
nominated projects to be sponsored by proceeds of the first Bond under the Program.
5 onshore solar and 1 onshore wind power generation projects are listed as
prospective nominated projects to be sponsored by proceeds of the subsequent bonds
under the Program.
2 Process for
Evaluation and
Selection of
Projects & Assets
Reviewed the Framework and the Disclosure Documentation to confirm the process for
Projects & Assets evaluation and selection are in place and will be followed.
3 Management of
Proceeds
Reviewed the Framework and the Disclosure Documentation to confirm the proceeds
from the first Bond are to be managed properly.
4 Reporting Prior to
Issuance
Reviewed the Disclosure Documentation to confirm reporting prior to issuance was
done properly and post-issuance reporting is to be arranged.
9 Climate Bonds
Taxonomy
As confirmed by the Issuer, the full pool of projects & assets of the bonds under the
Program are onshore solar and onshore wind power projects, which according to
Climate Bonds Taxonomy fall under Solar Energy and Wind Energy.
Nonimated projects of the first Bond have been reviewed against the Climated Bonds
Taxonomy to confirm that they fall under Solar Energy and Wind Energy.
Prospective nominated projects & assets of the subsequent bonds are the same as
those listed in the pre-issuance documentation under the Program, except for “Tianjin
Huadian Haijing 1000MW Solar Power Farm Project”, which has been confirmed under
the first Bond.
Nominated projects of the first Bond and prospective nominated projects of the
subsequent bonds are included in the Appendix 1 & 2 of the Disclosure
Documentation.
10 Sector Eligibility
Criteria
The Sector Eligibility Criteria for Solar and Wind Energy have been reviewed to confirm
the nominated projects of the first Bond meet the Sector Eligibility Criteria. As
confirmed by the Issuer, the prospective Nominated Projects & Assets of the bonds
under the Program are onshore solar and onshore wind electricity generation projects.
In the list of nominated projects of the first Bond, 10 onshore solar electricity generation
projects and 3 onshore wind energy generation projects which are under construction
or planned to be constructed are included, leading to an expected annual emission
reduction of 6.29 Million tCO2e when operation formally achieved. Information of
nominated project name, installed capacity, location, lifespan, information about
construction start, necessary approvals for project construction and operation,
expected environmental benefits, as well as the total investments of the project are
fully described in the Appendix 1 of Disclosure Documentation, making it meeting the
Criteria requirements for Solar/Wind Energy as per the Solar/Wind Energy Sector
Eligibility Criteria.
Prospective nominated projects of the subsequent bonds which are kept the same as
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
4
those listed in the pre-issuance documentation of the Program, except for “Tianjin
Huadian Haijing 1000MW Solar Power Farm Project”. Information about Project
Approvals from DRC, EIA Approvals and Land Use Approvals of the proposed projects
which is mandatory for construction and operation of projects is listed in Appendix 2 of
the Disclosure Documentation. As for environmental benefits, an annual emission
reduction of 3.78 Million tCO2e is expected to generate from the prospective nominated
projects when operation formally achieved.
If projects from sectors other than wind and solar are to be included in nominated
projects in future when bonds are issued, further assessment will be performed to
make sure each sector eligibility Criteria is met.
- Project Holding Investment information about nominated projects listed in the Disclosure
Documentation has been reviewed to confirm that the total investment of the listed
projects which is more than 27 Billion RMB is more than the proceeds of the first Bond
under the Program, 2 Billion RMB.
As for the prospective nominated projects of subsequent bonds, the investment is more
than 13 Billion RMB, greater than the amount of remaining proceeds, 8 Billion RMB.
- Settlement Period Reviewed the Framework and the Disclosure Documentation to check the allocation of
the proceeds from the first Bond will be completed within 24 months from bond
issuance.
7. Verification Team
The verification team is as follows:
Team Leader: Ya BU
Technical Reviewer: Xiaozhe SONG
Authorized Signatory: Hanke ZHANG
8. Verification Opinion
The iGreenbank has performed the pre-issuance verification of the first Bond
issuance under the Program in accordance with the CBS and sector eligiblity and the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000): Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
Our verification approach relies on an understanding of the risks associated with the
Bond’s conforming to the CBS and the measures in place to mitigate them. We
planned and performed the verification by obtaining evidence and information that we
consider necessary to give limited assurance on the Bond issuance under the
Program to meet the requirements of the CBS.
The assurance procedure includes document review, interview with the management
team of the Issuer and communication with relevant staff. Based on the procedure
conducted for limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that the first Bond
issuance under the Program is not in line with the requirements of the CBS and
related Sector Criteria.
Verification Team Leader:
Authorized Signatory:
Date: August 17, 2023
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
5
About iGreenBank
iGreenBank (Beijing) Investment Service Co., Ltd. (iGreenBank) was established in
2015, with a registered capital of RMB 10 Million Yuan. iGreenBank is headquartered
in Beijing and it has two branches in Shanghai and Guangzhou. The contact
information of iGreenBank is as follows:
Hanke Zhang
+(86)-20-3908-8220
No. 3402, C3 Building, CCCC Center, North Jiangling Road, Hengli Town,
Nansha District, Guangzhou
Guangdong Province, PRC
iGreenBank is a professional comprehensive service provider focusing on green
finance and carbon neutral business. We are the first green finance technology
service provider in China. We are committed to using innovative business models
and technologies to provide green finance solutions for governments, enterprises and
financial institutions.
Our business scope covers almost all green finance fields, including green fintech
solution design, green finance policy research, green enterprise/project evaluation,
green bond evaluation, green finance product development, ESG evaluation,
environmental risk management, etc.
To meet the needs of diversified green finance businesses, iGreenBank has built a
cross-industry team, including experts from the fields of economics, investment,
energy, environmental science and engineering, finance, certification, risk
management, carbon accounting and digital technologies.
Professional Qualifications
iGreenBank is a member of the National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors (NAFMII) and a verifier approved by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI).
iGreenBank can conduct green finance assessments and third-party certifications for
national and international clients. (https://www.climatebonds.net/certification/approved-verifiers)
iGreenBank is registered with Green Bond Standard Committee of China as one of
the first green bond verification and certification entities in China. The registration is
also filed with the People's Bank of China and China Securities Regulatory
Commission.
Huadian New Energy Group Co., Ltd First Climate Bond under Climate Bonds Program
Pre-Issuance Verification Report
6
Annex 1. Conformance to the Pre-Issuance Certification requirements of the CBS2
1. Use of Proceeds
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement
Met
1.1 The Issuer shall document the Nominated Projects & Assets which are
proposed to be associated with the Bond and which have been assessed as likely to
be Eligible Projects & Assets. The Issuer shall establish a list of Nominated Projects
& Assets which can be kept UpToDate during the term of the Bond.
Reviewed the Framework and the Disclosure Documentation and
found that Issuer confirmed that the Nominated Projects & Assets from
the Program will be in sectors which are eligible in accordance with
CBS. In the attachment of the Disclosure Documentation, a list of
nominated projects of first Bond has been laid out. The issuer has
confirmed to keep the list updated during the term of the Bonds.
Yes
1.2. The expected Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be no greater than the Issuer’s
total investment exposure to the proposed Nominated Projects & Assets, or the
relevant proportion of the total Market Value of the proposed Nominated Projects &
Assets which are owned or funded by the Issuer.
Issuer has claimed that the Framework was compiled in alignment
with the CBS, where the requirements have been followed which
means that Net Proceeds shall not be greater than the total
investment exposure to the Nominated Projects & Assets. In the
Appendix 1 of the Disclosure Documentation, the total investment of
nominated projects of the first Bond is more than 27 Billion RMB,
which is greater than the Proceeds of the first Bond under the
Program, 2 Billion RMB.
Yes
1.3 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other Certified Climate
Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds,
green loans or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds)
unless it is demonstrated by the Issuer that:
Reviewed the Disclosure Documentation to confirm the Nominated
Projects & Assets will not be nominated to other debt instruments.
Yes
1.3.1 Distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & Assets are being funded by
different Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt
Instruments, green bond, green loans or other labelled instruments or;
1.3.2 The existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Certified
Climate Debt Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified Climate Bond,
Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate Debt Instrument.
2
The Annex 1 is laid out with accordance to the checklist of CBS V3.0.
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
7
2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects and Assets
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement
Met
2.1. The Issuer shall establish, document and maintain a decision-making
process which it uses to determine the eligibility of the Nominated Projects &
Assets. The decision-making process shall include, without limitation:
Reviewed Chapter 3 of the Framework and confirmed the
decision-making process for the determination of projects
& assets’ eligibility are in place and documented.The
Issuer complied with the statements in the Framework
that provided for pre-issuance verification of the Program..
Yes
2.1.1. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond. In the Framework, the Issuer stated the bonds to be
issued under the Program would benefit the achievement
of the goal of Carbon Neutrality.
Yes
2.1.2 How the climate-related objectives of the Bond are positioned within
the context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or
processes relating to environmental sustainability.
The Issuer is the sole platform for renewable energy
business of China Huadian Group, with a long-term
objective of sustainable development and help achieve
the target of carbon peak and carbon neutrality. The
issuance of green (climate) bonds fits well in the Issuer’s
development strategy.
Yes
2.1.3 Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond. The issuer is one of the biggest renewable energy
companies in China, with wind and solar projects all over
China. The issuance of bonds under the Program with
proceeds to be used on onshore wind and solar projects
would help increase the issuer’s installed capacities of
renewable energy.
Yes
2.1.4 A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & Assets
meet the eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the Climate Bonds
Standard.
As Chapter 2 of the Framework stated, the Financial
Department of the issuer is responsible for evaluation and
selection of eligible projects and assets. In the Chapter 3
of the Framework, the Financial Department defines the
process for projects and assets determination in order to
meet the eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the
Climate Bonds Standard.
Yes
2.2 Issuer should include under Clause 2.1 further aspects of the decision-
making process, including:
Chapter 3 of the Framework was reviewed to confirm that
the requirement is met. The Issuer complied with the
statements in the Framework that provided for pre-
issuance verification of the Program.
Yes
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
8
2.2.1 Related eligibility criteria, including, if applicable, exclusion criteria or
any other process, applied to identify and manage potentially material
environmental, social or governance risks associated with the Nominated
Projects & Assets.
As stated in IPO prospectus and publicly available
documentations, the Issuer has developed internal
environmental protection frameworks regarding the
projects, such as Measures for Environmental Protection
As for the nominated projects, the Issuer has commissioned
the external party to help identify the environmental related
risks demonstrating in the Feasibility Study Report. As stated
in Framework, they will follow the designated mitigation and
prevention approaches described in the EIA Approvals.
Yes
2.2.2 Green standards or certifications referenced in the selection of
Nominated Projects & Assets.
According to the Framework, Green Bond Endorsed
Projects Catalogue (2021 Edition), Green Industry
Guidance Catalogue (2019 Edition) and Climate Bonds
Taxonomy are referenced.
Yes
2.2.3 The issuer shall assess that all proposed Nominated Projects &
Assets to be associated with the Bond meet the documented objectives as
stated under Clause 2.1.1 and are likely to conform to the relevant
eligibility requirements under Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard.
Chapters 2 & 3 of the Framework describe the process
and responsibilities for evaluation and selection of eligible
projects and assets. All nominated projects were reviewed
as “eligible” against sector criteria which show great
potential to reduce GHG emissions and help mitigate
climate change.
Yes
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
9
3. Management of Proceeds
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement
Met
3.1 The systems, policies and processes to be used for management
of the Net Proceeds shall be documented by the Issuer and disclosed
to the Verifier, and shall include arrangements for the following
activities:
The Framework and the Disclosure Documentation were
reviewed to confirm this requirement is met.The Issuer complied
with the statements in the Framework and Disclosure
Documentation that provided for pre-issuance verification of the
Program.
Yes
3.1.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond can be credited to a sub-
account, moved to a sub-portfolio, or otherwise tracked by the
Issuer in an appropriate manner and documented.
As per stated in the Chapter 4 of the Framework, a designated
account will be established to track the allocation of The Net
Proceeds of the Bond.
Yes
3.1.2 The balance of unallocated Net Proceeds can be managed
as per the requirements in Clause 7.3.
As per stated in the Section 17 of Chapter 4 of the Framework,
unallocated Net Proceeds may be carried out cash management
and temporarily invested in products with high safety and good
liquidity, such as treasury bonds and government bonds.
The unallocated proceeds shall not be invested in high-polluting
and carbon-intensive projects and assets.
Yes
3.1.3 The earmarking process can be used to manage and account
for funding to the Nominated Projects & Assets and enables
estimation of the share of the Net Proceeds being used for
financing and refinancing.
As per stated in the Chapter 4 of the Framework, a designated
account will be established solely to track the earmarking process
of the Net Proceeds from green bonds.
Yes
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
10
4. Reporting Prior To Issuance
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement
Met
4.1 The Issuer shall prepare a Green Bond Framework and make it
publicly available prior to Issuance or at the time of Issuance. The Green
Bond Framework shall include, without limitation:
The Framework was reviewed to confirm this requirement is
met.The Issuer complied with the statements in the Framework
and Disclosure Documentation that provided for pre-issuance
verification of the Program.
Yes
4.1.1 Confirmation that the Bonds issued under the Green Bond
Framework are aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard. This may
include statements of alignment with other applicable standards, such
as the EU Green Bond Standard, the ASEAN Green Bond Standard,
Chinese domestic regulations, Japanese Green Bond Guidelines, etc.
As per stated in the Chapters 1 and 3 of the Framework,CBS and
Chinese domestic regulations such as Green Bond Endorsed
Projects Catalogue (2021 Edition), Green Industry Guidance
Catalogue (2019 Edition) are mentioned to be aligned with.
Yes
4.1.2 A summary of the expected use of proceeds, as defined under
Clause 1.1, and the expected contribution of the relevant sectors or
sub-sectors to the rapid transition required to achieve the goals of the
Paris Climate Agreement.
The Appendix 1 of the Disclosure Documentation has been
reviewed to confirm the proceeds of the first Bond under the
Program are going to allocated to 10 solar and 3 wind energy
projects.
Provided that the nominated projects of all bonds are Solar/Wind
Energy, the use of proceeds contributes to generate GHG
emission reductions in energy industry.
Yes
4.1.3 A description of the decision-making process, as defined under
Clause 2.1, with particular reference to the requirements in Clause
2.1.2.
Chapter 3 of the Framework was reviewed to confirm the eligible
project selection process has been documented.
Yes
4.1.4 On the methodology and assumptions to be used for: confirming,
where required by relevant Sector Eligibility Criteria, the
characteristics or performance of Nominated Projects & Assets
required to conform to the relevant eligibility requirements under Part
C of the Climate Bonds Standard; and any other additional impact
metrics that the issuer will define.
Section 8 of the Framework was reviewed and confirm this
requirement has been met.
As listed in the Appendix 1 of the Disclosure Documentation, the
nominated projects of the first Bond would likely to generate
annual GHG emission reductions of 6.29 Million tCO2e when they
are fully operated compared with the electricity generation from
burning fossil energy.
Yes
4.1.5 A summary of the approach to the management of unallocated
Net Proceeds in accordance with Clause 3.1.
Refer to 3.1. Yes
4.1.6 The intended approach to providing Update Reports to reaffirm As stated in the Chapter 5 of the Framework and the Disclosure Yes
Pre-Issuance Verification Report for the First Bond
under Huadian New Energy Group Corporation Limited Climate Bonds Program
11
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard while the Bond
remains outstanding.
Documentation, the Issuer will compile the Update Reports
annually during the term of the bonds.
4.1.7 The list of proposed Nominated Projects & Assets associated
with the Bond and the investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1,
into which the Nominated Projects & Assets fall. Where there are limits
on the amount of detail that can be made available about specific
Nominated Projects & Assets, information shall be presented on the
investment areas which the Nominated Projects & Assets fall into,
provided in Clause 9.1, and the Issuer shall provide an explanation of
why details on Nominated Projects & Assets is limited.
The Nominated Projects of first Bond have been listed in the
Appendix 1 of the Disclosure Documentation, which was reviewed
to confirm this requirement has been met.
Yes
4.1.8 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used for refinancing,
an estimate of the share of the Net Proceeds used for financing and
refinancing, and the relevant Nominated Projects & Assets or
investment areas which may be refinanced. This may also include the
expected look-back period for refinanced Nominated Projects &
Assets.
As per stated in the Section 13 of the Framework, the Net
Proceeds can be used for refinancing which is aligned with
Chinese regulations. In the Framework, there is no limitation of the
proportion of refinancing, which does not violate CBS
requirements.
As for the first Bond under the Program, the Issuer has confirmed
in the Disclosure Documentation that there is no proportion for
refinancing of the net proceeds.
Yes
4.2 The Issuer shall include in the Disclosure Documentation: The Disclosure Documentation was reviewed to confirm this
requirement is met.
Yes
4.2.1 The investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, into which the
Nominated Projects & Assets fall.
The Disclosure Documentation has been reviewed to confirm the
projects on which the proceeds will be used are onshore
solar/wind projects. A list of nominated projects of the first Bond is
given in the Disclosure Documentation.
Yes
4.2.2 The intended types of temporary investment instruments for the
management of unallocated Net Proceeds in accordance with Clause
7.3.
According to the Disclosure Documentation and the Framework,
National bonds, Government bonds, etc. are mentioned for
temporary use of unallocated proceeds.
Yes
4.2.3 The Verifier engaged by the Issuer for the mandatory verification
engagements.
The iGreenBank has been commissioned to perform the
verification.
Yes
4.2.4 The intended approach to providing Update Reports to reaffirm
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard while the Bond
remains outstanding, including the location of the published
documents.
According to the Disclosure Documentation, the Issuer has
confirmed the Update Reports will be annually disclosed on
ChinaMoney, Shanghai Clearing House or other official channels.
Yes
4.2.5 The CBI Disclaimer provided in the Certification Agreement. Disclaimer is included in the Disclosure Documentation. Yes