,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Issuance Reasonable Assessment Engagement 
 
Second Climate Bond Issuance of Aliança Geração de Energia 
S.A S.A.  
 
Climate Bond Standard version 3.0 and CBI Wind Energy 
Criteria (September 2020) 
Assessment Report 
March 21st, 2022 | Rio de Janeiro  
Practitioner Team 
Gustavo Pimentel | gpimentel@sitawi.net   
 Cristóvão Alves| calves@sitawi.net  
Camila Toigo | ctoigo@sitawi.net  
 

 
 
 ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT | 1 
 
About SITAWI 
 
SITAWI Finance for Good is a Brazil -based organization whose mission is to mobilize  
capital for positive environmental and social impact. We develop financial solutions for  
social impact and advise the financial sector on how to incorporate environmental and  
social issues into strategy, risk management and investment analysis. We are one of the 
5 best ESG research houses for investors according to Extel  Independent Research in 
Responsible Investment - IRRI 2019 – and a pioneer in the green bond market in Brazil. 
 
 
Index 
1. Engagement Summary ................................ ................................ .......................... 2 
2. Assessment Statement ................................ ................................ .......................... 4 
3. Summary of Findings ................................ ................................ ............................. 5 
4. Supporting Documents................................ ................................ ......................... 12 
 
 
2 | ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT  
 
1. Engagement Summary 
 
This report aims to provide a Pre -Issuance Verification for the Fifth Issuance of Non -
convertible Debentures (“Bond”) to be issued by Aliança Geração de Energia S.A. 
(“Aliança” or “Issuer”) as a Certified Climate Bond. The assessment was conducted by 
SITAWI Finance for Good (“Verifier”), as an independent third-party provider accredited 
by the Cli mate Bonds Standards Board.  This issuance is the second  Climate Bond of 
Aliança Geração de Energia S.A. 
 
The proceeds will be allocated to reimbursements and future expenses related to the 
implementation of Gravier and Acauã Wind Complexes (“Nominated Projects & Assets”). 
The use of proceeds is set in the Bond’s indenture.  
 
This is the second climate issuance directed to the Gravier project. The first one has 
represented about 51% of the project’s total costs  and the second one will represent 
about 44%. Aliança is the only shareholder in the project thereby the value of green 
emissions is not greater than the issuer’s exposure to the green project , since the sum 
of the climate bonds proceeds is less than the project’s total value.  
 
Regarding the Acauã project, the present climate issuance will represent about 7% of its 
total costs. Both projects are also being financed with equity and other non-labelled 
debentures1.  
 
SITAWI’s assessment method follows the Climate Bonds Standards, Version 3.0 2. The 
assessment followed Climate Bond Initiative (CBI)’s general requirements (applicable to 
all bonds) and the Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 
1.2 under the Climate Bonds Standard (Version September 2020). 
 
The assessment process consisted of: 
• Planning the assessment;  
• Risk Assessment;  
• Performing the assessment, including client preparation, obtaining evidence and 
practitioner assessment;  
• Forming the assessment conclusion;  
• Preparing the assessment report;  
• Submission for CBI certification. 
 
The assessment relied on both confidential an d public information and documents 
provided by  the Issuer , desk research and remote interviews conducted with the 
sustainability and finance  areas. This process was carried out between February and 
March 2022.  
 
The assessment process was performed in accordance with relevant general principles 
& professional standards of independent auditing, and in line with the International 
Standard on Assessment Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information (ISAE 3000), International Standard in Quality Control (ISQC 1, 
2009) and Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of International Ethic Standards 
Board for Accountants (IESBA, 2019). 
 
The professionals that perform ed this assessment have previous knowledge and 
experience in applying Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0 and Climate Bond Sector 
Criteria and are familiar with the sector’s main ESG risks and opportunities. 
                                                
1 The Third Issuance was not labelled as a climate bond. 
2 https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/climate-bonds-standard-v3-20191210.pdf  
 
 
 ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT | 3 
 
 
SITAWI had access to all documents and professionals requested, thus being able to 
provide an opinion with a reasonable3 level of  assurance regarding completeness, 
accuracy, and reliability. The Issuer displayed a high level of transparency during the 
execution of this process. 
 
SITAWI is not Aliança Geração de Energia S.A ’s shareholder, subsidiary, supplier or 
client. SITAWI declares to have no conflict of interest to provide an independent 
assessment regarding the current issuance. SITAWI was responsible for a Second-Party 
Opinion on the Fourth  Issuance of Non -convertible Debentures issued by Aliança 
Geração de Energia S.A in 2021. The issuance was labelled as a green bond. 
 
The assessment contained in this Report is based on both public and confidential 
documents provided by Aliança Geração de Energia S.A. SITAWI cannot attest or be 
held responsible for the completeness, preciseness, or reliability of these sources.  
 
SITAWI is responsible to provide an external and independent assessment on the 
conformance of the Bond with the Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0 requirements and 
associated sector-specific technical criteria. We reinforce that the analysis and opinion 
in this report shall not be taken as an investment recommendation or a proxy for liquidity 
or returns. 
 
  
 
                                                
3 “In a reasonable assurance engagement, the practitioner reduces assurance engagement risk to an acceptably low level 
in the circumstances of the engagement to obtain reasonable assurance as the basis for a positive form of expression of 
the practitioner’s conclusion. The level of assurance engagement risk is higher in a limited assurance engagement than 
in a reasonable assurance engagement because of the different nature, tim ing or extent of evidence -gathering 
procedures” (ISAE 3000, 2013).  
 
4 | ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT  
 
2. Assessment Statement
The proceeds from the Bond will be allocated to reimbursements and future expenses 
related to the implementation of Gravier Wind Complex and Acauã Wind Complex. The 
use of proceeds is set in the Bond’s indenture.  
 
Based on the reasonable assessment procedures conducted and evidence obtained, in 
our opinion, the Second Climate Bond Issuance of Aliança Geração de Energia S.A in 
2022 is in conformance, in all material respects, with the Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria 
of the Climate Bonds Initiative Version 1.2 and applicable sector -specific technical 
criteria (Version September 2020), and with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0.  
The Issuer is committed to reviewing the bond for up to 24 months to confirm compliance 
with the Climate Bonds Standard. 
 
 
  
______________ 
Camila Toigo 
Practitioner 
ctoigo@sitawi.net 
 
_______________ 
Cristóvão Alves 
Practitioner 
Leader 
calves@sitawi.net 
 
______________ 
Gustavo Pimentel 
Leader Responsible 
for Quality 
gpimentel@sitawi.net                  
 
 
 
Practitioner Team 
Rio de Janeiro, March 21st, 2022

 
 
 ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT | 5 
 
3. Summary of Findings 
Upon guidance from the Climate Bond Standards, Version 3.0, SITAWI assessed the 
Bond issuance and the Nominated Projects & Assets, with the following subdivisions: 
 
1. Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist Assessment 
2. Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 1.2  
(Version September 2020)4 Assessment 
 
 
3.1. Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist Assessment 
 
The following assessment is based on the Part A of the Climate Bonds Standards 
Version 3.0, namely the Pre-Issuance Requirements. It is organized according to the 
items listed in the Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist5 provided by CBI. Climate Bonds 
Standard Requirements are listed, followed by each requirement of factual findings. Each 
of the four sections ( 1. Use of  Proceeds; 2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of 
Projects and Assets; 3. Management of Proceeds; 4. Reporting Prior To Issuance) 
contains SITAWI’s conclusions. 
 
1. Use of Proceeds 
 
1.1 The Issuer shall document the Nominated Projects & Assets which are proposed 
to be associated with the Bond and which have been assessed as likely to be 
Eligible Projects & Assets. The Issuer shall establish a list of Nominated Projects 
& Assets which can be kept up to date during the term of the Bond. 
 
The Bond’s indenture indicates that the proceeds will be allocated to the costs related 
to the construction of two Wind Complex es (indenture’s clause 3.8.1). The covered 
expenses include future expenses (about 56%) and reimbursements  (about 44%) 
related to the implementation  of Gravier Wind Complex  in Icapuí municipality, Ceará 
State, and Acauã Wind Complex  in Santana dos Matos, Lagoa Nova, Tenente 
Laurentino and São Vicente municipalities, Rio Grande do Norte State (Brazil). None of 
the facilities has/will have >15% fossil fuel back up.  The proceeds will also finance a 
wholly dedicated transmission infrastructure for Acauã Wind Complex, whose costs are 
accounted for in the project’s total CAPEX. 
 
The lookback period for the refinancing share is 24 months. The remaining proceeds will 
be allocated to the projects within 24 months.  The Gravier Wind Complex is in the final 
stage of construction and its operations are due to occur after April 2022. The Acauã 
Wind Complex is in the initial phase of construction and its operations are due to occur 
after March 2023. 
 
1.2 The expected Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be no greater than the Issuer’s total 
investment exposure to the proposed Nominated Projects & Assets, or the 
relevant proportion of the total Market Value of the proposed Nominated Projects 
& Assets which are owned or funded by the Issuer. 
 
The financial instrument is a non -convertible bond, which will finance and reimburse  
expenses related to the Nominated Projects & Ass ets. The issuance value is BRL 
240,000,000.00.  
 
The expected cost of the Gravier project is BRL 429,000,000.00, and the expected cost 
of the Acauã project is BRL 732,000,000.00, which include the dedicated transmission 
infrastructure’s coast. The climate issuance will represent about 44% of the total costs 
                                                
4 https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/Sector%20Criteria%20-%20Wind%20v1_2_28September2020.pdf  
5 https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/pre-issuance-certification-checklist-CBS-v3.docx  
 
6 | ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT  
 
of the Gravier project and about 6% of the Acauã project. Therefore, the net proceeds 
of the bond are smaller than the project total CAPEX. 
 
 
1.3 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other Certified Climate 
Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, 
green loans, or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds) 
unless it is demonstrated by the Issuer that: 
 
1.3.1 Distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & Assets are being funded by 
different Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate 
Debt Instruments, green bond, green loans or other labelled instruments or;  
 
1.3.2 The existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate 
Debt Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified Climate Bond, 
Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate Debt Instrument. 
 
In 2021, Gravier Wind Complex have been nominated for a green/climate bond. The 
proceeds of the first issuance represented about 51% of the CAPEX costs, and the 
proceeds of the second issuance will represent about 44% of it.  
 
As presented below, the sum of the proceeds derived from the two  climate bonds is 
less than the project’s total value. 
 
 
Table 1 – Estimated CAPEX vs. Climate bonds proceeds 
Source Gravier Wind Complex 
1st Climate Bond Issuance BRL 220,000,000.00 
2nd Climate 
Bond 
Issuance 
Reimbursement* BRL 100,945,423.92 
Future 
expenses* BRL 89,054,576.08 
Equity BRL 19,000,000.00 
Total (CAPEX) BRL 429,000,000.00 
 
*The breakdown between reimbursement and future values is estimative and can change according to the 
project cash flow and the date of debentures’ sale off.   
 
The same issuance has been subject to a second-party opinion provided by SITAWI. 
 
 
In our opinion, the Bond is in conformance, in all material respects, with the ‘Use of 
Proceeds’ portion of the Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist. 
 
 
2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects and Assets 
 
2.1 The Issuer shall establish, document and maintain a decision -making process 
which it uses to determine the eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. The 
decision-making process shall include, without limitation: 
2.1.1 A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond. 
 
According to the Issuer, the climate -related objectives of the bond are the reduction of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, through the increase of renewable energy in the 
Brazilian power grid. Table 2 describes the nominated projects , the installed capacity 
and gross annual power generation, according to Gravier and Acauã Wind Complexes’ 
Consolidated Reports on Power Generation (“Estudo de Vento” in Portuguese): 
 
  
 
 
 ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT | 7 
 
Table 2 – Gravier and Acauã Benefits 
Project Installed 
Capacity (MW) 
Estimated Gross 
Annual Generation 
(GWh/yr) 
Estimated GHG 
emissions avoided 
(tCO2e/yr)6 
Gravier Wind 
Complex 71.4 370.9 46,881.76 
Acauã Wind Complex 109.2 597.7 75,549.28 
 
2.1.2 How the climate -related objectives of the Bond are positioned within the 
context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or 
processes relating to environmental sustainability. 
 
The Issuer’s social object as defined by its bylaws  is the economic and commercial 
exploitation of energy generation systems,  consulting services and participation in 
other electric power generation companies or ventures . Currently, the company 
operates only renewable energy projects in Brazil7. 
 
The Issuer has a formalized Environmental Policy that includes guidelines and 
commitment to environmental issues, which is also applied to its subsidiaries, 
controlled companies and/or consortia.  The environmental  management of the 
Nominated Projects & Assets is held by Aliança’s dedicated team. Moreover, Aliança 
has an internal  Environmental Legislation Contr ol and Assessment System, which 
provides registers with the status of environmental licenses, authorizations and 
conditions. 
 
Considering the aforementioned points, the climate -related objectives of the Bond  
are aligned with its core business and strategy. 
 
2.1.3 Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond. 
 
The issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond is to optimize the project’s capital structure, 
matching the long term and stable revenues with its liabilities. 
 
2.1.4 A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & Assets meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in Part C  (Clauses 9 and 10 ) of the Climate 
Bonds Standard. 
 
The Bond’s indenture states that the issuance’s proceeds will be directed to the 
Nominated Projects & Assets, which are wind farms. Therefore,  all Nominated 
Projects meet the CBI eligibility criteria and fall into the investment areas below.  
 
9. Climate Bonds Taxonomy:  The Nominated Projects & Assets fall into the “Wind” 
under “Energy” investment area as included in the Climate Bonds Taxonomy.  
10. Sector Eligibility Criteria : The Nominated Projects & Assets meet the specific 
eligibility requirements provided in the Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria document (see 
section 3.2). 
 
2.2 Issuer should include under Clause 2.1 further aspects of the decisio n-making 
process, including: 
2.2.1 Related eligibility criteria, including, if applicable, exclusion criteria or any 
other process, applied to identify and manage potentially material 
environmental, social or governance risks associated with the Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
 
As the eligible projects and assets are already defined prior to the issuance, there is 
no mention of the decision-making process. 
 
                                                
6 The avoided GHG emissions was estimated by multiplying the GHG emission factor of the Brazilian power grid (0.1264 
tCO2/MWh) by the gross annual power generation. The GHG emission factor was provided by the Ministry of Science, 
Technology, Innovations and Communications. 
7 Available at: http://ri.aliancaenergia.com.br/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=55343  
 
8 | ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT  
 
The Issuer has stated  there is  an internal process and dedicated employee to 
manage environmental and social  risks. To demonstrate the adequate internal 
capacity to ensure that the environmental benefits of projects can be achieved, 
Aliança has relied on an EMS inspired by the requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 
standard. 
 
Is important to highlight that t he Nomin ated Projects & Assets  also have their 
environmental license in force. Besides, Bond’s indenture points out the obligation to 
follow environmental and social legislation. Some of the issues explicitly cited are the 
prohibition of slavery -like labour, child labour, race and gender discrimination . In 
addition, environmental protection and health and safety aspects are also specified.  
The indenture sets an early termination clause in case of non-compliance. 
 
SITAWI has conducted an in -depth assessment o n the environmental and social 
management aspect of the eligible projects and assets. It has been concluded that 
the projects have a comfortable E&S management system in place. 
 
2.2.2 Green standards or certifications referenced in the selection of Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
 
The projects do not have any green standards or certifications.  
 
2.2.3 The issuer shall assess that all proposed Nominated Projects & Assets to be 
associated with the Bond meet the documented objectives as stated under 
Clause 2.1.1 and are likely to conform to the relevant eligibility requirements 
under Part C (Clauses 9 and 10) of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
 
9. Climate Bonds Taxonomy : All of t he Nominated Projects & Assets fall into the 
“Wind” under “Energy” investment area as included in the Climate Bonds Taxonomy. 
10. Sector Eligibility Criteria:  The Nominated Projects & Assets meet the specific 
eligibility requirements provided in the Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria document (see 
section 3.2). 
 
The Bond’s indenture states that the issuance’s proceeds are exclusively for the 
Nominated Projects & Assets,  which comply with CBI’s clauses 9 and 10.  None of 
the facilities has/will have >15% fossil fuel back up. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Management of Proceeds 
 
3.1 The systems, policies, and processes to be used for management of the Net 
Proceeds shall be documented by the Issuer and disclosed to the Verifier, and 
shall include arrangements for the following activities: 
 
3.1.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond can be credited to a sub -account, moved to a 
sub-portfolio, or otherwise tracked by the Issuer in an appropriate manner and 
documented. 
 
The nominated projects and assets are operated by special purpose vehicles (SPV), 
separate legal entities for the projects’ development.  The remaining portion  of the 
proceeds will be held in the Issuer’s central account and transferred to its segregated 
subaccounts of the SPV, which enables the proper tracking of the proceeds.  
 
Early termination clause s have been included in the debenture's indenture to avoid 
changes in the scope of the projects or the use of proceeds for another purpose than 
the development of wind power projects. 
 
In our opinion, the Issuance is in conformance, in all material respects, with the 
‘Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects and Assets’ portion of the Pre -
Issuance Certification Checklist. 
 
 
 
 ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT | 9 
 
The bond falls under the Brazilian category of “incentivized infrastructure bond” since 
the project to be financed is classified as a priority project by the Brazilian Ministry of 
Mines and Energy. Thus, the bond must also comply with the provisions of Law 
12,431/11, in order not to lose the special tax treatment benefits. 
 
The proceeds will be fully allocated within 24 months after the issuance.  
 
3.1.2 The balance of unallocated Net Proceeds can be managed as per the 
requirements in Clause 7.3. 
 
According to the Issuer’s internal investment policy , whenever the proceeds are not 
immediately destined for future expenses of the Gravier and Acauã Wind Complexes, 
they will be allocated in  cash and high-liquidity low-risk instruments, such as fixed -
income instruments issued by financial institutions.  As the funds will finance the 
portfolio of financial institutions as a whole, the risk of contamination in these cash 
instruments is lower. 
 
3.1.3 The earmarking process can be used to manage and account for funding to the 
Nominated Projects & Assets and enables es timation of the share of the Net 
Proceeds being used for financing and refinancing. 
 
According to the Issuer, about 44% of the proceeds will be allocated to reimburse 
expenses related to the implementation of Gravier and Acauã Wind Complexes. The 
remaining portion of the proceeds, about 56%, will be held in the Issuer’s central 
account and transferred to its segregated subaccounts and financial statements of 
the SPV from up to 24 months. 
 
 
 In our opinion, the Bond is in conformance, in all mat erial respects, with the 
‘Management of Proceeds’ portion of the Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist. 
 
 
4. Reporting Prior To Issuance 
 
4.1 The Issuer shall prepare a Green Bond Framework and make it publicly available 
prior to Issuance or at the time of Issuance. The Green Bond Framework shall 
include, without limitation:  
4.1.1 Confirmation that the Bonds issued under the Green Bond Framework are 
aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard. This may include statements of 
alignment with other applicable standards, such as the EU Green Bond 
Standard, the ASEAN Green Bond Standard, Chinese domestic regulations, 
Japanese Green Bond Guidelines, etc.;  
 
The Green Bond Framework declares alignment with Climate Bond Standard version 
3.0. and the Green Bond Principles, by the International Capital markets Association 
(ICMA). 
 
4.1.2 A summary of the expected use of proceeds, as defined under Clause 1.1, and 
the expected contribution of the relevant sectors or sub -sectors to the rapid 
transition required to achieve the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement;  
 
According to the Framework, the Green Bond will be allocated for future payments 
and reimbursement of costs related to the implementation of the Gravier and Acauã 
Project, wind farms located in Ceará  and the Rio Grande do Norte (Brazil) . The 
eligible projects will increase in 180.6 MW the installed capacity of renewable energy 
in the Brazilian power mix and, consequently, the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions. 
 
4.1.3  A description of the decision -making process, as defined under Clause 2.1, 
with particular reference to the requirements in Clause 2.1.2;  
 
 
10 | ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT  
 
Since the projects that will receive the proceeds from the bond are already defined, 
there is no mention of the decision-making process after the issuance. According to 
the Framework , before receiving investments, p rojects developed by Aliança 
Geração de Energia S.A  are submitted for budget approval, supported by the 
project’s financial analysis and alignment with the company’s strategy, and approved 
by the Board of Officers and subsequently by the  Board of Directors and  
Shareholders’ Meeting. Aliança has an adequate internal capacity to ensure that the 
project’s e nvironmental benefits can be achieved, with an environmental 
management system aligned with the requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 standard. 
Additionally, Aliança has an Operations Officer, which controls all processes related 
to the operations of the Gravier and Acauã Project plant. 
 
4.1.4 Information on the methodology and assumptions to be used for: confirming, 
where required by relevant Sector Eligibility Criteria, the characteristics or 
performance of Nominated Projects & Assets required to conform to the 
relevant eligibility requirement s under Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard; 
and any other additional impact metrics that the issuer will define.  
 
The Framework declares that the projects fit into CBI Taxonomy for wind energy. The 
Gravier and Acauã Project fit into the CBI Taxonomy as a wind energy generation 
facility (onshore wind farm).  
 
4.1.5 A summary of the approach to the management of unallocated Net Proceeds 
in accordance with Clause 3.1; 
 
The Framework states that the proceeds will be temporarily allocated in low-risk high 
liquidity fixed income instruments issued by the financial institution. The allocation of 
proceeds used will be annually reviewed by an external audit. 
 
4.1.6 The intended approach to providing Update Reports to reaffirm conformance 
with the Climate Bonds Standard while the Bond remains outstanding;  
 
The Framework states that the issuer will provide information regarding the allocation 
of proceeds and its environmental impacts until the full allocation. The financial and 
environmental indicators will be published in the Sustainability Report, which will be 
available on the company ’s website. This report will disclose information about the 
amount of renewable energy generated annually (MWh) by the project and the 
respective GHG emission avoided (MtCO2e). 
 
4.1.7 The list of proposed Nominated Projects & Assets associated with the Bond 
and the investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, into which the Nominated 
Projects & Assets fall. Where there are limits on the amount of detail that can 
be made available about specific Nominated Projects & Assets, information 
shall be presented on the investment areas which the Nominated Projects & 
Assets fall into, as  provided in Clause 9.1, and the Issuer shall provide an 
explanation of why detail on Nominated Projects & Assets is limited; 15 Climate 
Bonds Standard Version 3.0  
 
The Framework specifies that the Bond will finance and reimburse costs, exclusively, 
related to CAPEX for the Gravier and Acauã Project implementation. The project was 
approved as a priority project by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, through Ordinance 
No. 332/SPE, for the purposes of art. 2 of Law No. 12,431. 
 
4.1.8 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used for refinancing, an estimate 
of the share of the Net Proceeds used for financing and refinancing, and the 
relevant Nominated Projects & Assets or investment areas which may be 
refinanced. This may also include the expected look-back period for refinanced 
Nominated Projects & Assets. 
 
The framework informs that the proportion of reimbursement is about 44% and the 
remaining 56% for future expenses. The Issuer informs that the proceeds will be 
allocated up to 24 months after the Issuance.  
 
 
 
 ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT | 11 
 
4.2 The Issuer shall include in the Disclosure Documentation: 
4.2.1 Tthe investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, into which the Nominated 
Projects & Assets fall. 
 
The Bond’s indenture indicated that the Nominated Projects & Assets fall in the 'Wind' 
classification under the 'Energy' head of the Climate Bonds Taxonomy  (clause 
4.16.1). 
 
4.2.2 The intended types of temporary investment instruments for the management 
of unallocated Net Proceeds in accordance with Clause 7.3. 
 
In accordance with a declared commitment duly signed by the responsible managers 
of the Aliança’s Finance and Fundraising department,  whenever the proceeds are 
not immediately destined for reimbursements of expenses of the wind farms, they will 
be allocate d in high-liquidity low -risk fixed-income instruments issued by financial 
institutions, complying with Alianç a’s financial investment policy . As the funds will 
finance the portfolio of financial institutions as a whole, the risk of contamination in 
these cash instruments is lower. 
 
4.2.3 The Verifier engaged by the Issuer for the mandatory verification engagements. 
 
The Bond’s indenture mentions an accredited verifier was engaged by the Issuer for 
the mandatory verification engagements. 
 
4.2.4 The intended approach to  providing Update Reports to reaffirm conformance 
with the Climate Bonds Standard while the Bond remains outstanding, 
including the location of the published documents. 
 
The Debenture’s indenture includes the intended approach to providing Update 
Reports to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard while the Bond 
remains outstanding. The Update Reports will be published on the Issuer’s website  
and sent to its fiduciary agent. 
 
4.2.5 The CBI Disclaimer provided in the Certification Agreement. 
 
The Bond’s indenture includes the CBI Disclaimer provided in the Certification 
Agreement. 
 
 
 In our opinion, the Bond is in conformance, in all material respects, with the 
‘Reporting Prior to Issuance’ portion of the Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist. 
 
 
3.2. Climate Bonds Initiative’s taxonomy and Wind Sector Eligibility 
Criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 1.2 (Version September 
2020) Assessment 
 
The following assessment is based on the Part C of the Climate Bonds Standards Version 3.0, 
namely the Eligibility of Projects & Assets. It is organized according to the items listed in the Wind 
Energy Taxonomy and its respective sectorial criteria under the Climate Bonds Standard provided 
by CBI. The Sectoral Criteria  Requirements are listed, followed by each requirement’s factual 
findings. The section (3.2) is concluded with SITAWI’s assessment conclusion.  
 
Mitigation Component: Wind energy generation shall be projects & assets that operate or 
are under construction to operating in one or more of the following activities:  
 
1) The development, construction and operation of wind farms 
2) Operational production or manufacturing facilities wholly dedicated to wind energy 
development  
3) Wholly dedicated transmission infrastructure for wind farms.  
 
12 | ASSESSMENT REPORT – PRE-ISSUANCE REASONABLE ASSESSMENT ENGAGEMENT  
 
 
The Nominated Projects fall under  the activity 1, 2 and 3 above: the development, construction 
and operation of wind farms , dedicated transmission lines and dedicated operational facilities . 
None of the facilities has/will have >15% fossil fuel back up. 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Supporting Documents 
• Bond’s indenture; 
• Second Party Opinion Report; 
• Aliança’s Green Bonds Framework. 
• Consolidated Reports on Power Generation; 
• Interview with the Issuer;  
• Declaration of temporary investments of the issuance proceeds 
• Issuer’s institutional presentation 
• Issuer’s website 
In our opinion, the bond is in conformance, in all material respects, with the Wind Sectoral 
Criteria under the Climate Bonds Standard (Version September 2020).