BNP PARIBAS 
GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 2024 
2 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
1. INTRODUCTION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  3 
2. GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 4 
USE OF PROCEEDS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 
PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION ........................................................................................................................................................................ 9 
MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 11 
REPORTING ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 12 
3. EXTERNAL REVIEW BY THIRD PARTIES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  13 
4. APPENDIX - BNP PARIBAS FRAMEWORK IN PLACE FOR MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE RISKS  .......................  15 
5. DISCLAIMERS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  18 
RISK FACTORS ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  18 
INVESTMENT CONSIDERATIONS ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  19 
 
 
   
3 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The BNP Paribas Group (“ BNP Paribas” ,“the Group” or “The Bank”) recognises the urgency of the 
climate crisis.  
 
The findings in the 6th report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)1 dated March 
2023 are alarming: at the current rate of development, global warming could cause an increase in 
temperature of 2.7°C by the end of the century, above the target set by the Paris Agreement to hold 
global temperatures well below 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial levels. 
 
For more than 10 years, BNP Paribas has been working towards the ecological transition by placing 
ESG topics at the heart of its business and making the transition to a more environmentally -friendly 
economy a global commitment. In addition to designing res ponsible financial products and services, 
BNP Paribas supports a variety of initiatives and innovations to address the major challenges of climate 
change with a clear objective: to finance a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. 
 
 “Our aim is to continue to be a t the forefront of combatting climate change by moving further and 
faster to limit the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 °C by 2050. As the task becomes ever more urgent, 
we have integrated new targets in our strategic plan for 2025 to finance the energy transition. In the 
current geopolitical context, it is even more essential that we maintain an ambitious course towards 
a net-zero economy and finance the acceleration of renewable energies. Our strategy is threefold: 
align our portfolio with our net -zero commitment; measure and pilot our carbon -related risks; and 
broaden and deepen client relationships to support them as they make their low-carbon transition.2” 
said Jean-Laurent Bonnafé, Director and Chief Executive Officer, BNP Paribas.  
 
BNP Paribas has a long -standing commitment to sustainability. Since 2010, we have integrated 
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) factors into our risk framework for all our financing 
and investments across the Group. We  also have specific Corporate So cial Responsibility (“ CSR”) 
policies for nine sensitive sectors applying to all products and services.  
 
BNP Paribas is committed to aligning its financings with  the pathway to a net-zero economy by mid-
century. In 2021, the Bank was a founding signatory of the Net-Zero Banking Alliance, which allowed 
to broaden the scope in terms of sector s being considered, and to define  more ambitious climate 
targets to help limit the increase in global temperatures (in line with the 1.5°C scenario), supporting 
the Group’s carbon neutrality goal. In 2022, the Group committed to reducing  at least 30% carbon 
emission intensity for power generation  of its portfolio and reach ing less than 5% of coal in the 
portfolio capacity mix (down from 10% as of year end 2020), as well as reducing its credit exposure to 
oil and gas exploration and produc tion activities by 12% , between 2020 and 2025. Moreover, the 
Group has become a world leader in financing the energy transition and fully supports its customers 
committed to this transformation. The Climate Analytics and Alignment Report highlights the Group’s 
early commitments to finance a net -zero economy by 2050 . These commitments are shaped by 
existing initiatives to redirect financial flows towards low -carbon activities  - for example, since 
September 2022, BNP Paribas’ financing for low-carbon energy production has been higher than its 
financing for fossil fuel production . By 2030, 80% of  the Group ’s financing oustanding in energy 
production will be for low -carbon energy, and financing for oil extraction and production will be 
reduced to less than 1 billion euros, a decrease of more than 80% compared to the current outstanding 
amount. The Group will also  no longer financ e coal-fired power generation activities in Europe and 
OECD countries by 2030 (2040 for the rest of the world). 3 
 
1 https://www.ipcc.ch/assessment-report/ar6/  
2 BNPP GTS 2025 Stategic Plan Press Release : https://invest.bnpparibas/en/document/gts-2025-techno-and-esg-en  
3 https://group.bnpparibas/uploads/file/bnpp_climateanalytics_alignmentreport_final.pdf  
4 
 
 
As a testament to this commitment to sustainability, BNP Paribas holds robust ratings with numerous 
extra-financial rating agencies4.  
 
BNP Paribas Group is committed to advising and financing corporations in building resilient and 
sustainable business models, in particular through the Bank’s financing of assets and projects with a 
positive and measurable impact on the environment. Similarly, BNP Paribas is committed to meeting 
the requirements of institutional investors for green debt securities which demonstrate a positive 
impact on the environment.  
 
2. GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 
BNP Paribas establishe d its Green Bond Framework  (the “ Green Bond Framework ” or the 
“Framework”) with the aim to mobilise debt capital markets for climate change and energy transition 
solutions and o ffer investors further insight on the Bank’ s sustainability strategy in line with its 
commitments.  
 
BNP Paribas ’ Green Bond Framework is aligned  with the four core components and key 
recommendations of the 2021 Green Bond Principles (with June 2022 Append ix)5 published by the 
International Capital Market Association (the “Green Bond Principles”). This Green Bond Framework 
has been revised to reflect the recent developments and best practices of the Green Bond market.  
 
BNP Paribas’ Green Bond Framework is intended to accommodate the issuance of secured or 
unsecured transactions (public and/or private placements) in various formats and currencies . Green 
Bonds issued under secured transactions shall only be “Secured Green Standard Bond” as defined in 
the 2021 Green Bond Principles issued by ICMA as updated in June 2022. Further details will be 
provided in the applicable announcements and/or in the applicable legal documentation.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, references to Green Bond or Securities herein should be construed as any 
Securities secured or unsecured to be issued by BNP Paribas , or by BNP Paribas Emissions - und 
Handelsgesellschaft mbh6 (“EHG”) and guaranteed by BNP Paribas,  or by BNP P aribas Issuance B.V 7 
(“IBV”) and guaranteed by BNP Paribas , in line and in accordance with the Green Bond Framework. 
Accordingly, references to BNP Paribas below shall in relation to Securities issued by IBV or EHG mean 
both IBV and EHG.   
 
USE OF PROCEEDS 
In accordance with BNP Paribas Group’s policy to contribute to energy transition solutions and in line 
with the  Green Bond Principles, BNP Paribas has identified sectors with a positive impact on the 
environment (the “Eligible Categories”). Within the Eligible Categories, BNP Paribas identifies Eligible 
Green Assets (the “ Eligible Green Assets” ) based on its comprehensive Environmental, Social and 
 
4 Latest CSR presentations of BNP Paribas’ extra-financing ratings and associated indexes available in: 
https://invest.bnpparibas.com/en/latest-csr-presentations 
5 https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable-finance/2022-updates/Green-Bond-Principles_June-2022-280622.pdf  
6 BNP Paribas Emissions und Handelsgesellschaft mbH is 100% owned by BNP Paribas S.A. Securities issued by BNP Paribas Emissions und 
Handelsgesellschaft mbH are guaranteed by BNP Paribas S.A. More information on the programmes/(base) prospectuses and the financial 
statements of this issuer may be found at https://derivate.bnpparibas.com/service/basisprospekte/ (for the programmes/(base) 
prospectuses) and https://derivate.bnpparibas.com/service/ueber-uns/finanzinformationen/ (for the financial statements). 
7 BNP Paribas Issuance B.V. is 100% owned by BNP Paribas. Securities issued by BNP Paribas Issuance B.V are guaranteed by BNP Paribas 
SA. More information on the programme and the financial statements of this issuer may be found at https://rates-
globalmarkets.bnpparibas.com/documents/legaldocs/resourceindex.htm 
   
5 
 
Governance Risk Management framework 8 , when complying with at least one of the following 
selection criteria: 
• Substantial Contribution criteria9 on eligible economic activities identified in the table b elow 
as per the EU Taxonomy Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable 
investment (the “EU Taxonomy”), and relevant taxonomy delegated acts (the “Delegated 
Acts”), as amended from time to time; or 
• BNP Paribas’ internal eligibility criteria, as defined considering sector market practices, on 
eligible activities which predated the EU Taxonomy or whenever it is impractical to apply the 
EU Taxonomy based on current market practices and existing information.  
 
In time, whenever feasible and relevant, and on a best effort s basis considering the extensive range 
of activities and projects financed by the Group’s global operations , BNP Paribas intends to increase 
the number of Eligible Green Assets  complying with the Substantial Contribution criteria  of the EU 
Taxonomy. 
 
The Eligible Green Assets may be any existing, on-going loans or any other form of financing, directly 
financed and/or refinanced by BNP Paribas SA, or indirectly via any one of BNP Paribas SA’s 
subsidiaries. 
 
An amount equivalent to the net proceeds from the issuance of any Green Bond in accordance with 
this Framework is intended to finance and/or refinance, in whole or in part, Eligible Green Assets as 
defined below in the Eligible Categories.  
 
The distribution of allocated eligible assets by Eligible C ategory will be shared to investors in the 
relevant Annual Green Bond allocation and impact report, available on BNP Paribas’ Investor Relations 
website10. 
Eligible 
Categories11 Eligible Green Assets selection criteria EU Taxonomy Economic 
Activities12 
Environmental 
Objective 
Renewable 
Energy 
 
 
  
Assets related to the acquisition, development, 
manufacture, construction, installation, and/or operation 
of renewable energy facilites:  
• Offshore and Onshore Wind  
• Solar Photovoltaic 
• Concentrated Solar Power 
• Hydropower with less than 1000 MW capacity, 
for which the electricity generation facility is a 
run-of-river plant and does not have an artificial 
reservoir, or the power density of the electricity 
generation facility is above 5 W/m2, or the life-
cycle GHG emissions from the generation of 
electricity are lower than 100gCO2e/kWh  
• Geothermal energy, for which the life -cycle GHG 
emissions from the generation of electricity are 
lower than 100gCO2e/kWh13 
• Manufacture of green hydrogen and 
manufacture of equipment for the production 
and use of green hydrogen for which the life-
cycle GHG emissions savings are 73.4% for 
hydrogen (resulting in life-cycle emissions lower 
than 3 tCO2e/tH2) and the life-cycle GHG 
emissions savings are 70% for hydrogen-based 
synthetic fuels relative to a fossil fuel 
comparator of 94g CO2e/MJ14.   
 
3.1. Manufacture of renewable 
energy technologies 
3.2. Manufacture of equipment 
for the production and use of 
hydrogen 
3.10. Manufacture of hydrogen 
4.1. Electricity generation using 
solar photovoltaic technology 
4.2. Electricity generation using 
concentrated solar power (CSP) 
technology 
4.3. Electricity generation from 
wind power 
4.5. Electricity generation from 
hydropower 
4.6. Electricity generation from 
geothermal energy 
7.6. Installation, maintenance 
and repair of renewable energy 
technologies 
Climate change 
mitigation 

6 
 
 
8 Please see “Commitment 3: Systematic integration and management of environmental, social and governance risks (ESG)” in Chapter 7 of 
the 2023 Universal Registration Document: https://invest.bnpparibas/en/document/universal-registration-document-annual-financial-
report-2023-pdf-reproduction-of-the-official-version-of-the-afr-which-has-been-prepared-in-xhtml-format-and-is-available-on-the-issuers-
website  
9 As Article 3 paragraph a) of the Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the 
establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment. For clarification purposes, this does not mean full alignment with the 
EU Taxonomy. Furthermore, the eligibility assessment is performed against the version of EU Taxonomy Substantial Contribution criteria in 
force at the time of the deal origination (bond or loan origination, as applicable).  
10 https://invest.bnpparibas/en/search/debt/documents/documentation-on-programs-and-issuances?s%5Bsubthemes%5D%5B%5D=59  
11 Mapping against the UN SDGs is made based on ‘Green, Social & Sustainability Bonds: A high-level mapping to the sustainable 
development goals’ https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/June-2019/Mapping-SDGs-to-Green-Social-
and-Sustainability-Bonds06-2019-100619.pdf 
12 The EU Taxonomy economic activities listed are indicative only, and other activities may fit as long as the criteria in the Description of 
the Eligible Green Assets column apply. 
13 Life-cycle GHG emission savings are calculated using Commission Recommendation 2013/179/EU or, alternatively, using ISO 14067:2018 
or ISO 14064-1:2018, and verified by an independent third party. 
14 Life-cycle GHG emissions savings are calculated using the methodology referred to in Article 28(5) of Directive (EU) 2018/2001or, 
alternatively, using ISO 14067:2018, ISO 14064-1:2018, and verified in line with Article 30 of Directive (EU) 2018/2001 where applicable, or 
by an independent third party. 
15 For which the refrigerant Global Warming Potential does not exceed 675 and meet the energy efficiency requirements of the Directive 
2009/125/EC. 
16 It must be verified by an independent third party at least every three years. Also, the global warming potential (GWP) of refrigerants 
used in the data centre cooling system may not exceed 675. 
Energy 
Efficiency 
 
 
 
 
Assets related to the development, construction, 
installation, operation and improvement of energy 
efficient solutions, infrastructures, facilities and/or 
equipment:  
• Energy efficient technologies, products and 
processes, including, but not limited to, efficient 
lighting, HVAC (heating / heat pumps15, 
ventilation and air conditioning), insulation, 
control and energy management systems; for 
building renovation measures these must comply 
with minimum requirements set for individual 
components and systems in the national 
measures implementing the Energy Performance 
of Buildings Directive 2010/31/EU and, where 
applicable, equipment is rated in the highest two 
populated classes of energy efficiency in 
accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1369 
• Infrastructure for the transmission and 
distribution of electricity for which over 67% of 
newly enabled generation assets have a 
100gCO2e/kWh threshold (over a rolling 5-year 
period), or the grid’s average emissions factor is 
less than 100gCO2e/kWh  
• Smart grid technology 
• Manufacturing and operation of Energy Storage 
Systems (ESS) 
• Facilities exclusively for storage and distribution 
of green hydrogen complying with the description 
included in this Framework 
• Eco-efficient data centers complying with the 
most recent version of the European Code of 
Conduct on Data Centre Energy Efficiency, if 
applicable, or in CEN-CENELEC document CLC 
TR50600-99-1 “Data centre facilities and 
infrastructures – Part 99-1: Recommended 
practices for energy management” or in 
equivalent source16 
  
3.4. Manufacture of batteries 
3.5. Manufacture of energy 
efficiency equipment for 
buildings 
4.9. Transmission and 
distribution of electricity 
4.10. Storage of electricity 
4.12. Storage of hydrogen 
4.14. Transmission and 
distribution networks for 
renewable and low-carbon gases 
7.3. Installation, maintenance 
and repair of energy efficiency 
equipment 
7.5. Installation, maintenance 
and repair of instruments and 
devices for measuring, regulation 
and controlling energy 
performance of buildings 
8.1 Data processing, hosting and  
related activities 
 
Climate change 
mitigation  

   
7 
 
 
17 Green Buildings as defined by the Technical Screening Criteria for a Substantial Contribution to Climate Change Mitigation of the EU 
Taxonomy Climate Delegated Act or meeting the minimum threshold of the listed regional, national or international standards or 
certifications. 
18 The calculated amount of energy needed to meet the energy demand associated with the typical uses of a building expressed by a 
numeric indicator of total primary energy use in kWh/m2 per year and based on the relevant national calculation methodology and as 
displayed on the EPC. 
19 https://ec.europa.eu/energy/topics/energy-efficiency/energy-efficient-buildings/nearly-zero-energy-buildings_en 
20 As defined in the Directive 2010/31/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 2010 on the energy performance of 
buildings. 
21 If there are any deviation in the levels of performance set at the design stage or defects in the building envelope these should be 
disclosed to investors and clients. 
22 As set in the applicable national and regional building regulations for ‘major renovation’ implementing Directive 2010/31/EU, in which 
the energy performance of the building or the renovated part that is upgraded meets cost-optimal minimum energy performance 
requirements. 
Green 
Buildings17 
 
 
 
 
Assets related to the acquisition, construction, renovation 
and mortgaging of new or existing buildings complying 
with the following criteria:  
• Commercial or residential buildings built before 
31 December 2020 with at least Energy 
Performance Certificate (EPC) label A, or 
belonging to the top 15% of the national building 
stock based on primary energy demand (PED)18  
• Commercial or residential buildings built after 31 
December 2020 with Primary Energy Demand 
(PED) at least 10% lower than the threshold set 
for Nearly Zero-Energy Buildings (NZEB)19 
requirements in national measures20, and if larger 
than 5000 m2 having robust and traceable quality 
control processes in place during construction or, 
alternatively, undergoing testing for air-tightness 
and thermal integrity upon completion21   
• Commercial or residential buildings subject to 
refurbishment and renovation works complying 
with the applicable requirements for major 
renovations22, or leading to a reduction of PED of 
at least 30% 
 
or Commercial buildings that have, or intend to receive, at 
least one environmental certification  with the minimum 
target label from the following: 
o LEED “Gold”  
o BREEAM “Excellent”  
o NF HQE “Excellent”  
o BEAM Plus “Gold”  
o EDGE “Advanced”  
o BCA Green Mark “Gold”  
o DGNB “Gold” 
o BBCA “Performance", or 
o Other equivalent internationally 
recognised Green Building certifications 
7.1. Construction of new 
buildings  
7.2. Renovation of existing 
buildings 
7.7. Acquisition and ownership of 
buildings 
 
 
 
Climate change 
mitigation 
 

8 
 
 
  
 
23 Where the propulsion of personal mobility devices comes from the physical activity of the user, from a zero-emissions motor, or a mix of 
zero-emissions motor and physical activity. 
24 The rail infrastructure is dedicated to the transfer of passengers or freight from rail to rail or from other modes to rail. 
25 Vessels flying the flag of a State included in the black list published by the Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control 
(Paris MOU) are not eligible under this Framework. 
Clean 
Transportation 
 
 
 
Assets related to the acquisition, development, 
manufacture, construction, operation and/or upgrade of:  
• Zero tailpipe emissions road transport (electric 
and hydrogen vehicles, personal mobility 
devices23) dedicated to private, public or freight 
transport  
• Zero direct emissions rail transport for passengers 
or goods, including trains, trams and 
subways/metro 
• Infrastructure for road and rail transport24 
(expansion of rail transport networks, station 
upgrade, charging and fuelling stations for zero 
tailpipe emission vehicles)  
• Facilities dedicated to the development or 
production of zero emission vehicles, including 
hydrogen fuel cell systems for vehicles 
• Green ships25, namely vessels with zero direct 
emissions, fully electric or designed to operate 
with green hydrogen or hydrogen-derived 
synthetic fuels (green methanol, green ammonia), 
wind or solar (or a combination of the above); 
vessels, or assets applied to vessels, dedicated to 
the transport or storage of fossil fuels, or 
dedicated to support fossil fuel operations, are 
excluded 
3.3. Manufacture of low carbon 
technologies for transport  
3.18. Manufacture of automotive 
and mobility components 
3.19. Manufacture of rail rolling 
stock constituents 
6.1. Passenger interurban rail 
transport 
6.2. Freight rail transport 
6.3. Urban and suburban 
transport, road passenger 
transport 
6.4. Operation of personal 
mobility devices, cycle logistics 
6.5. Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and light 
commercial vehicles 
6.6. Freight transport services by 
road 
6.7. Inland passenger water 
transport 
6.8. Inland freight water 
transport 
6.10. Sea and coastal freight 
water transport, vessels for port 
operations and auxiliary activities 
6.11. Sea and coastal passenger 
water transport 
6.13. Infrastructure for personal 
mobility, cycle logistics 
6.14. Infrastructure for rail 
transport 
Climate change 
mitigation 
Water 
Management 
and Water 
Treatment 
 
 
 
 
Assets related to the development, construction, 
operation, extension and/or renewal of:  
• Water collection, treatment and supply systems 
as defined by either 5.1 or 5.2 SCC of the EU 
Taxonomy or internal criteria, as defined 
considering sector best market practices 
• Waste water collection and treatment as defined 
by either 5.3 or 5.4 SCC of the EU Taxonomy or 
internal criteria as defined considering sector best 
market practices  
 
5.1. Construction, extension and 
operation of water collection, 
treatment and supply systems 
5.2. Renewal of water collection, 
treatment and supply systems 
5.3. Construction, extension and 
operation of waste water 
collection and treatment 
5.4. Renewal of waste water 
collection and treatment 
 
 
Climate change 
mitigation 
Pollution 
prevention 
and control 
 
Assets related to the development, construction, 
operation and/or upgrade of: 
• Recycling facilities, for the sorting and processing 
of separately collected non-hazardous waste, 
including, but not limited to, metal, plastic and 
paper, converting at least 50%, in terms of weight, 
into secondary raw materials that are suitable for 
the substitution of virgin materials in production 
processes 
• Separate collection and transport of non-
hazardous waste for reuse or recycling 
5.5. Collection and transport of 
non-hazardous waste in source 
segregated fractions 
5.9. Material recovery from non-
hazardous waste 
 
 
Climate change 
mitigation 
 

   
9 
 
Exclusion Criteria 
For clarification purposes, the following sectors26 are excluded from the Green Bond Framework:  
• defence and security; 
• palm oil; 
• wood pulp; 
• nuclear power generation; 
• coal-fired power generation; 
• oil & gas; 
• mining; 
• tobacco; 
• aviation; and 
• any infrastructure dedicated to the exploration, production, transport or storage of fossil fuels. 
 
PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION 
Governance  
As an integral part of its governance for Green Bonds, BNP Paribas has set up a Green Bond Committee, 
bringing together various departments within the bank to supervise the issuance of the Green Bonds, 
the selection and monitoring of the portfolio of the Eligible Green Assets and to ensure the compliance 
of the Green Bonds with best practices.  
 
More specifically, the role of the Green Bond Committee is:  
i) To review and update the Framework to reflect, whenever feasible, changes in 
corporate strategy, market evolution, or regulatory developments. This also includes 
monitoring regulatory developments regarding the EU Regulation related to green 
bonds (such as the EU Taxonomy, the EU Taxonomy Climate Delegated Act and the EU 
Green Bond Standard); 
ii) To review the  selection criteria for the Eligible Green Assets, including possible 
updates linked to external frameworks such as the EU Taxonomy;  
iii) To review and validate the portfolio of Eligible Green Assets and their contribution to 
the EU environmental objectives;  
iv) To validate the annual reporting for investors;  
v) To review the appropriate external independent auditors ’ report and address any 
issues arising; and 
vi) To monitor any on -going evolution related to the Green Bond market practices in 
terms of disclosure/reporting and harmonisation.  
 
The Green Bond Committee meets on a semi -annual basis and is chaired by the Head of Corporate 
Social Responsibility for BNP Paribas . Members of the Green Bond Committee include the following 
departments:  
- Asset and Liability Management Treasury teams: In charge of  
i) Raising BNP Paribas Group wholesale funding on all maturities, in all currencies;  
ii) Providing a standard loan database to monitor the portfolio of Eligible Green Assets, 
producing an amortisation loan maturity schedule, flagging the Eligible Green Assets in  
 
26 Please see Appendix. Further details on BNP Paribas Policies can also be found at BNP Paribas’ website: 
https://group.bnpparibas/en/financing-investment-policies 
10 
 
the relevant internal system for audit trail and reporting purposes and thus preventing 
any double-financing of the Eligible Green Assets; and  
iii) Investing the balance of the net proceeds of the Green Bonds not yet allocated, at its own 
discretion, in cash and/or short term investments.  
- Sustainability Center - CIB Sustainability Office: Responsible for assisting in the screening of the 
Eligible Green Assets and Eligible Categories and preparing the reporting for investors. In his/her 
role as Chairman of the Green Bond Committee, the Head of CSR for BNP Paribas will have the 
final decision on the selection of the Eligible Green Assets. The Team is also responsible for 
liaising with external third parties, including independent Second Party Opinion (SPO) providers 
and the appropriate external independent auditors. 
- Sustainable Capital Markets: Responsible for acting as an advisor and updating the Green Bond 
Committee on best practices in relation to the Green Bond market. 
- Relevant business lines:  Responsible for providing agreed -upon information on the Eligible 
Green Assets, communicating the events that may occur on the Eligible Green Assets at deal 
level or counterparty level (i.e. early termination or extension) and assisting in the selection of 
assets within the Eligible Categories. 
Any other teams deemed necessary to be represented may also be included.  
 
Identification of the Eligible Green Assets 
The Eligible Green Assets financed and/or refinanc ed through an amount equivalent to the net 
proceeds of Green Bonds issued under this Framework are identified and selected through an internal 
screening process. 
 
The Eligible Green Assets are sourced from the various Eligible Categories and are selected following 
the application of a screening process that aims to assure that the potential environmental, social and 
governance risks linked to eligible projects are identified. This includes sustainability criteria covering 
Social, Environmental, Health and Safety and Supply Chain indicators. 
In addition to the analysis and selection process previously described, further screening is applied to 
ensure the portfolio of the Eligible Green Assets do not include non-committed transactions, loans on 
watchlists, and assets pledged to other green financing programmes. 
 
   
11 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS  
a. A single common portfolio of Eligible Green Assets  
An amount equivalent to the net proceeds from the Green Bonds issued under this Framework will be 
managed on a portfolio basis. BNP Paribas intends to accrue over time a single portfolio of diversified 
Eligible Green Assets from the different Eligible Categories subject to internal selec tion and 
verification by appropriate third parties.  
 
The amount equivalent  to the net proceeds from the issuance of any Green Bond under this  
Framework will be managed and overseen by the Asset and Liability Management Treasury team. BNP 
Paribas monitors the use of the net proceeds of the Securities via its internal information systems. An 
amount equivalent to the  net proceeds will be wholly  allocated to finance and/or refinance new or 
existing Eligible Green Assets  as outlined in this  Framework. The Asset and Liability Management 
Treasury team will ensure, on a best efforts basis, that the portfolio of Eligible Green Assets exceeds, 
or at least is equal to, the amount of Green Bonds net proceeds raised under this Framework. 

12 
 
BNP Paribas will use its best efforts to substitute any redeemed loans or any other forms of financing 
that cease to be an Eligible Green Asset, as soon as practicable and once an appropriate substitution 
option has been identified, as long as Green Bond issues are outstanding. 
 
b. Unallocated proceeds 
Pending the allocation or reallocation, as the case may be, of the net proceeds of the Securities to 
Eligible Green Assets, BNP Paribas will invest the balance of the net proceeds, at its own discretion 
and in accordance with relevant internal policies , in cash, cash equivalent and/or other liquid 
marketable instruments.  
 
REPORTING 
a. Annual reporting 
BNP Paribas will apply its best efforts to produce, at least once a year,  a report for all Green Bond 
issuances under the Green Bond Framework, which has been the case since the first issuance in 2016.  
As long as any Green Bond is outstanding, BNP Paribas will report on:  
i) The Eligible Green Assets  financed and/or refinanced by t he net proceeds and their 
relevant environmental impact indicators, on an aggregated basis;  
ii) The allocation of the Securities’ net proceeds  to Eligible Green Assets  detailing the 
aggregate amount dedicated to each of the Eligible Categories; and  
iii) The balan ce of unallocated cash , cash equivalent and/or other liquid marketable 
instruments still held by BNP Paribas.  
 
The reporting will present the agg regation of the Eligible Green Assets per Eligible Category and per 
technology, where applicable, and subject to permitted disclosure in accordance with relevant 
confidentiality agreements . The summary of the methodology used to assess and report on the 
environmental benefits of the Eligible Categories will be provided in the report, as applicable. 
 
The reporting is intended to follow the guidelines of the Green Bond Principles, as amended from time 
to time, and the reference guidance of the International Capital Market Association (“ICMA”) , 
“Harmonized Framework for Impact Reporting ” dated June 20 2327. In particular,  for each of the 
Eligible Categories and subject to available data , BNP Paribas will apply its best efforts to report on 
the performance and impact of the Eligible Green Assets  with appropriate indicators , in line with 
market requirements, as follows (but not limited to): 
 
Eligible categories Impact indicators 
Renewable Energy • Installed capacity (MW) 
• Annual renewable energy generation (GWh) 
• Estimated annual GHG Avoided emissions (tCO2 eq) 
Energy Efficiency • Estimated annual GHG Avoided emissions (tCO2 eq) 
Green Buildings • Annual energy consumption (KWh) 
• Estimated annual GHG Footprint (tCO 2 eq) per financed or 
certified area 
Clean Transportation • Passenger-kilometres and/or number of passengers 
• Kilometers of new or improved infrastructure  
• Estimated annual GHG Avoided emissions (tCO2 eq) 
 
27 https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable-finance/2023-updates/Handbook-Harmonised-framework-for-impact-
reporting-June-2023-220623.pdf  
   
13 
 
Water Management and Water Treatment • Annual water savings (m3/year) 
• Annual amount of wastewater treated, reused or avoided  
(m3/year) 
• Estimated annual GHG Footprint (tCO2 eq) 
Pollution prevention and control • Annual amount of recycled materials (tonnes) 
• Estimated annual GHG Footprint (tCO2 eq) 
 
The report will be reviewed and verified by appropriate external independent auditors as described in 
the chapter “External Review by Third Parties”. 
 
b. Other documents 
The following documents are expected to be  made publicly available to investors on BNP Paribas’ 
Investor Relations website28:  
- Final Terms, pricing supplement, prospectus, offering circular as applicable, of the relevant 
Green Bond benchmark issuances (if applicable); 
- Green Bond Framework, as further updated from time to time; 
- BNP Paribas Green Bond Investor Presentation; 
- Second Party Opinion on the Green Bond Framework from independent Second Party Opinion 
provider29; 
- Second Party Opinion on Eligible Green Assets from independent Second Party Opinion provider 
(term as defined hereafter); 
- Annual assurance report from appropriate external independent auditors; and 
- Annual reporting and methodology. 
 
The Second Party Opinion  on Eligible Green Assets, the annual assurance report from appropriate 
external independent auditors and the annual reporting and methodology are all expected to be made 
publicly available on BNP Paribas’ Investor Relations website in the same timely manner. 
 
3. EXTERNAL REVIEW BY THIRD PARTIES 
a. Second Party Opinion on the Green Bond Framework 
BNP Paribas will appoint an independent Second Party O pinion provider to assess the sustainability  
elements of its Green Bond Framework, and in particular, to verify its alignment with the ICMA Green 
Bond Principles . The Party Opinion is available on  BNP Paribas’ Investor  Relations website: 
https://invest.bnpparibas/en/.  
 
Any material upda te to the Framework will be subject to the prior approval of the selected Second 
Party Opinion provider. 
 
b. Review of the Eligible Green Assets 
In the interest of transparency and in pursuant of a best -in-class approach, BNP Paribas plans to 
submit the Eligible Green Assets added within the course of each year to an independent third party 
review (that can be conducted by, amongst others, the selected Second Party Opinion Provider and/or 
any other third parties deemed to be appropriate as per the Green B ond Principles) to confirm 
 
28 https://invest.bnpparibas/en/search/debt/documents/documentation-on-programs-and-issuances?s%5Bsubthemes%5D%5B%5D=59  
29 Please see ‘External Review by Third Parties, b. Review of the Eligible Green Assets’ section below 
14 
 
compliance with the selection criteria applicable to the Eligible Green Asset and with the relevant 
sustainability standards set forth in this Framework.  
 
c. Independent Assurance 
BNP Paribas will seek  independent assurance from an external auditor on the allocation and impact 
reports related to its Green Bond Framework.  
 
 
   
15 
 
4. APPENDIX - BNP PARIBAS FRAMEWORK IN PLACE FOR MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE RISKS 
BNP Paribas’ framework for managing ESG risks is part of an integrated risk management approach30, 
which has been continually developed and improved since 2010. 
 
This approach is based on: 
- The development of CSR sector policies covering the provision of financial products and 
services to clients and/or projects in sensitive sectors; 
- Compliance with the Equator Principles for large-scale industrial and infrastructure projects; 
- The development of a new ESG assessment framework since June 2021 that identifies, 
assesses and monitors the ESG performance and risks of corporate customers by sector with 
a common approach within the Group. Currently designed for large companies, this 
framework will be gradually adapted and extended to different customer segments; 
- An internal CSR Exclusion and Monitoring List with companies that either are in breach of 
BNP Paribas’ commitments or present ESG issues that require particularly careful due 
diligence and follow up; and 
- The integration of ESG due diligence in the Global Credit Policy and in the standard decision -
making processes of the Bank. 
 
This framework, in place since 2010, was further strengthened with the following measures31:  
- Strengthening of carbon risk management; 
- Strengthening respect for human rights; 
- Strengthening commitment to combat deforestation and protect biodiversity; 
- Exclusion of the tobacco sector; 
- Exclusion of companies and projects significantly involved in unconventional oil & gas sectors; 
- Exclusion of oil & gas from companies or projects with operations in the Arctic and the Amazon 
- Aligning the Bank´s business strategies with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the 
Paris Climate Agreement by signing the Principles for Responsible Banking; in this context, the 
Bank formalised commitment to SDG 14 “Life below water” and discloses its actions to protect 
oceans32; and 
- Reinforcement of existing ESG risk assessment framework for clients by combining existing 
setup within CIB , i.e. Policy Assessment Tables (PAT) and CSR Screening, in a single and 
consistent model of evaluation: ESG Assessment. 
 
a. Sector policies 
Some sectors present major ESG challenges and are considered highly sensitive. For these sectors, 
BNP Paribas has implemented comprehensive policies with clear mandatory requirements and 
evaluation criteria covering the provision of financial products and services to corporate clients or 
projects. These sector policies allow BNP Paribas to operate in such sectors, while avoiding the worst 
performers and favouring the best players and companies committed to improving their practices.  
 
30 Please see in Chapter 7 of the Universal Registration Document  
https://invest.bnpparibas/en/document/universal-registration-document-annual-financial-report-2023-pdf-reproduction-of-the-official-
version-of-the-afr-which-has-been-prepared-in-xhtml-format-and-is-available-on-the-issuers-website  
31 Please see in Chapter 7 of the Universal Registration Document 
https://invest.bnpparibas/en/document/universal-registration-document-annual-financial-report-2023-pdf-reproduction-of-the-official-
version-of-the-afr-which-has-been-prepared-in-xhtml-format-and-is-available-on-the-issuers-website  
32 Please see Press Release of BNP Paribas reinforcing commitmenet to UN SDG at New York Climate Week 
https://group.bnpparibas/en/press-release/bnp-paribas-reinforces-commitment-sustainable-development-goals-york-climate-week  
16 
 
 
BNP Paribas has nine policies covering the following sectors:  
- Defence  
- Palm oil  
- Wood pulp 
- Nuclear power generation 
- Coal-fired power generation 
- Oil & gas 
- Mining  
- Agriculture 
- Tobacco 
 
Developed in cooperation with internal and external experts, and taking into account the opinions of 
a wide range of different stakeholders, these public policies apply worldwide to all BNP Paribas 
Group’s entities and business lines. 
 
The sector policies are available on our corporate website:  
https://group.bnpparibas/en/group/at-the-service-of-our-clients-and-society/supporting-
transitions/financing-and-investment-policies  
 
b. Equator Principles  
BNP Paribas adopted the Equator Principles (EPs) in 2008. This landmark voluntary initiative from the 
financial sector is a due diligence framework process applied to certain financing and advisory 
transactions related to the development of infrastructure and industrial projects (either greenfield or 
when there is a significant expansion or upgrade of an existing project). Under the EPs, projects need 
to comply with good international practices (such as the World Bank and International Finance 
Corporation standards and guidelines in non “High Income OECD” countries), designed to avoid and 
reduce potential negative impacts on the population and the environment, and to ensure projects are 
developed in a responsible manner. Compliance with these standards is en sured through specific 
clauses in the loan documentation, and performance is regularly monitored. 105 financial institutions 
from 38 countries have adopted the Equator Principles.  
The annual report of BNP Paribas on the Equator Principles is publicly available:  
https://cdn-
group.bnpparibas.com/uploads/file/bnpparibas_2021_reporting_on_the_equator_principles.pdf 
 
c. Specific ESG risk assessment system for products and services 
✓ Integration of ESG criteria into credit and rating policies 
BNP Paribas progressively integrates ESG criteria into its specific credit and rating policies. The general 
credit policy for corporate clients requires the business lines to assess how their clients manage their 
ESG risks, and how they respond to public controversies. 
 
✓ The assessment of ESG risks for corporate clients  
Over the course of 2022, BNP Paribas gradually deployed the ESG Assessment, a group wide process 
for systematic identi fication, assessment and monitoring of the ESG performance and risks of 
corporate clients. The ESG Assessment has sector -specific questionnaires covering 19 different 
industry sectors and integrates the CSR Sectoral Policies ’ compliance analysis. All questionnaires 
encompass five ESG dimensions: Governance & Business Ethics, Pollution & Biodiver sity, Climate, 
Human Rights - Workforce, and Human Rights - Consumers and Communities.  
 
   
17 
 
The purpose of the questionnaire is to establish the “ESG Profile” of the client as part of the credit 
process and the annual client review. This is supplemented by an  analysis of ESG controversies for 
each client. 
 
The ESG Assessment has to be updated and recertified every year. The magnitude of this update and 
the frequency may vary depending on the client’s ESG risk level. 
 
✓ CSR Monitoring and Exclusion lists 
Through the application of its ESG framework, BNP Paribas identifies companies that do not meet its 
CSR requirements (such companies are added to the CSR Exclusion list) and companies that present 
particular ESG risks (such companies are added to the CSR M onitoring list). Companies on the CSR 
Exclusion list cannot be onboarded and existing client relationships have to be exited. While it is still 
possible to work with companies on the CSR Monitoring list, they are subject to a specific due diligence 
process to ensure progress is made against the identified issues, and specific transactions are subject 
to ad-hoc approval committees.  
 
BNP Paribas has also implemented a list of excluded goods and activities to which the bank will not 
provide any financial prod ucts, such as tobacco, controversial weapons ’ drift nets, production of 
asbestos fibres, products containing  Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), or the trading of any species 
regulated by the CITES Convention.  
 
d. Control plan on the ESG framework implementation 
The implementation of this ESG framework in the various operating entities and geographies of the 
BNP Paribas Group relies on existing levels of control (such as Risk and compliance). 
 
In 2019, the Risk function was established as a second line of defence to ensure that extra -financial 
issues are taken into account in credit decisions. 
 
In order to ensure that ESG risk management tools are strictly applied in all entities, the Group has 
developed a CSR operational control plan. This control plan is fully integrated into the Group's general 
operational control framework and is gradually transposed in the various operating entities, with the 
support of CSR and permanent operational control teams. BNP Paribas is updating this operational 
control plan to incorporate the new ESG requirements defined by the Group in light of the Duty of 
Care law.  
 
In addition, the General Inspection of the Bank is conducting periodic reviews of various business lines 
and coverage teams to ensure compliance with the Group procedures. These reviews also cover the 
implementation of the ESG framework, as and when applicable. 
 
 
18 
 
5. DISCLAIMERS  
RISK FACTORS  
This document (the Green Bond Framework ) is intended to provide non -exhaustive, general 
information. This document may contain or incorporate by reference public information not 
separately reviewed, approved or endorsed by BNP Paribas or any of its affiliates and accordingly, no 
representation, warranty or undertaking, express or implied, is made and no responsibility or liability 
is accepted by BNP Paribas or any of its affiliates as to the fairness, accuracy, reasonableness or 
completeness of such information.  
This document may contain statem ents about future events and expectations that are forward -
looking statements.  None of the future projections, expectations, estimates or prospects in this 
document should be taken as forecasts or promises nor should they be taken as implying any 
indication, assurance or guarantee that the assumptions on which such future projections, 
expectations, estimates or prospects have been prepared are correct or exhaustive or, in the case of 
the assumptions, fully stated in the document. BNP Paribas has and underta kes no obligation to 
update, modify or amend this document or the statements contained herein to reflect actual changes 
in assumptions or changes in factors affecting these statements or to otherwise notify any addressee 
if any information, opinion, projection, forecast or estimate set forth herein changes or subsequently 
becomes inaccurate. 
This document is not intended to be and should not be construed as providing legal or financial advice. 
It does not constitute an offer or invitation to sell or any solicitation of any offer to subscribe for or 
purchase or a recommendation regarding any securities, and nothing contained herein shall form the 
basis of any contract or commitment whats oever and it has not been approved by any security 
regulatory authority.  
The addressee is solely liable for any use of the information contained herein and BNP Paribas or any 
of its affiliates shall not be held responsible for any damages, direct, indirect or otherwise, arising from 
the use of this document by the addressee. 
The Final Terms, pricing supplement, prospectus or offering circular, as applicable, relating to any 
specific Tranche of bonds, notes, NEU CP ( Negotiable EUropean Commercial Paper),  NEU MTN 
(Negotiable EUropean Medium Term Note) or other debt securities (the Securities) may provide that 
it will be BNP Paribas’ and/or BNP Paribas Issuance B.V.’s (in the case of Securities issued by BNP 
Paribas Issuance B.V.) intention to apply an amount equivalent to the net proceeds from the issuance 
of any Securities in accordance with this Framework, to finance and/or refinance new or existing  
Eligible Green Assets . For the avoidance of doubt, references to Green Bond or Securities herein 
should be construed as any Securities to be issued by BNP Paribas or by BNP Paribas Issuance B.V 33 
and guaranteed by BNP Paribas in line and in accordance with the Green Bond Framework. Accordingly, 
references to BNP Paribas below shall in relation to Securities issued  by BNP Paribas Issuance B.V. 
mean both BNP Paribas and BNP Paribas Issuance B.V.. 
Any:  
i) failure to apply the net proceeds of any issue of Green Bonds to any Eligible Green Assets;  
ii) withdrawal of any opinion or certification or any opinion or certification being superseded by 
an opinion or certification stating that BNP Paribas has not complied, in whole or in part, with 
any matters on which the original opinion or certification had opined or certified;  
 
33 BNP Paribas Issuance B.V. is 100% owned by BNP Paribas. Securities issued by BNP Paribas Issuance B.V are guaranteed by BNP Paribas 
SA. More information on the programme and the financial statements of this issuer may be found at https://rates-
globalmarkets.bnpparibas.com/gm/Public/LegalDocs.aspx 
   
19 
 
iii) lack of Eligible Green Assets in which BNP Paribas may invest; and/or 
iv) event or circumstances resulting in the Green Bonds no longer being listed or admitted to 
trading on any stock exchange or securities market,  
may have a material adverse effect on the value of Green Bonds and the value of any other securities 
which are inte nded to finance  and/or refinance  Eligible Green Assets  and/or could also result in 
adverse consequences for certain investors with portfolio mandates to invest in securities to be used 
for a particular purpose. Any such event will not constitute an event of default under the Green Bonds 
or a default of the BNP Paribas for any purpose, and does not affect the regulatory treatment of the 
Securities in respect of BNP Paribas. 
 
INVESTMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
The use of the net proceeds of any Securities for any Eligible Green Assets may not satisfy, whether in 
whole or in part, any present or future investor expectations or requirements as regards any 
investment criteria or guidelines with which such investor or its investments are required to comply, 
whether by any present or future applicable laws or regulations or by its own by -laws, investment 
policy or other governing rules or investment portfolio mandates, in particular w ith regard to any 
direct or indirect environmental, sustainability or social impact of any projects or uses, the subject of 
or related to, any Eligible Green Assets. 
Regulation (EU) No. 2020/852 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable  
investment was adopted by the Council and the European Parliament (the "Taxonomy Regulation"), 
as supplemented by Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 (as amended) and Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2023/2486 established a single EU -wide classification system, or "taxonomy", which provides 
companies and investors with a common language for determining which economic activities can be 
considered environmentally sustainable and technical screening criteria for determining which 
economic activities can be considere d as contributing substantially to one of the six environmental 
objectives of the Taxonomy Regulation, without such  economic activity causing any significant harm 
to any of the other environmental objectives.  
Any opinion or certification of any third part ies (whether or not solicited by BNP Paribas) which may 
be made available in connection with the issue and offering of any Green Bonds and in particular with 
the extent to which Eligible Green Assets may fulfil any environmental, sustainability, social and /or 
other criteria, may not be suitable or reliable for any purpose whatsoever. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any such opinion or certification is not, nor shall be deemed to be, incorporated in and/or form part 
of the Green Bond Framework. Any such opinion or certification is not, nor should be deemed to be, 
a recommendation by BNP Paribas and its affiliates or any other person to buy, sell or hold any Green 
Bonds. Any such opinion or certification is only current as of the date that opinion was initially issued. 
Prospective investors must determine for themselves the relevance of any such opinion or 
certification and/or the information contained therein and/or the provider of such opinion or 
certification for the purpose of any investment in such Green Bonds. Currently, the providers of such 
opinions and certifications are not subject to any specific regulatory or other regime or oversight. 
In the event that any Green Bonds are listed or admitted to trading on any dedicated "green", 
"environmental", "sustainable" or other similarly labelled segment of any stock exchange or securities 
market (whether or not a regulated market for the purpose o f the Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive 2014/65/EU, as amended), or are included in any dedicated "green", "environmental", 
"sustainable" or other equivalently-labelled index, such listing or admission, or inclusion in such index, 
may not satisfy,  whether in whole or in part, any present or future investor expectations or 
requirements as regards any investment criteria or guidelines with which such investor or its 
investments are required to comply, whether by any present or future applicable law o r regulations 
20 
 
or by its own by -laws or other governing rules or investment portfolio mandates, in particular with 
regard to any direct or indirect environmental, sustainability or social impact of any projects or uses, 
the subject of or related to, any cli mate projects. Furthermore, the criteria for any such listings or 
admission to trading may vary from one stock exchange or securities market to another and the 
criteria for inclusion in such index may vary from one index to another. Any such listing or adm ission 
to trading, or inclusion in any such index, may not be obtained in respect of Green Bonds or, if obtained, 
any such listing or admission to trading, or inclusion in such index, may not be maintained during the 
life of Green Bonds.  
While it is the i ntention of BNP Paribas to apply an amount equivalent to the net proceeds of any 
Green Bonds to Eligible Green Assets in, or substantially in, the manner described in the applicable 
Final Terms, pricing supplement, prospectus or offering circular and in th e Green Bond Framework, 
the relevant project(s) or use(s) which are the subject of, or related to, any Eligible Green Assets may, 
for reasons beyond the Issuer’s control, not be capable of being implemented in or substantially in 
such manner and/or in accordance with any timing schedule or within any specified period or at all or 
with the results or outcome (whether or not related to the environment) as originally expected or 
anticipated by BNP Paribas or such proceed may not be totally or partially disbursed for such Eligible 
Green Assets. Such Eligible Green Assets may not be completed. Any such event or failure by BNP 
Paribas to apply an amount equivalent to the net proceeds as intended will not constitute an event of 
default (however defined) under the Green Bonds, create an obligation for BNP Paribas to redeem the 
Green Bonds, give a right to an early redemption or the acceleration of the Green Bonds and/or give 
any claim against BNP Paribas.