M a y 2021   
 
1 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
 
Scope 
PKN is considering the issuance of its first 2021 Green Bond (hereafter the “Bond”). For this purpose, its intention is to use 
the proceeds to finance or refinance projects related to the construction and operation of Clean Transport infrastructure, 
Waste Management plants and renewable energies (the “Eligible Green Projects”). According to the Issuer, the potential 
issuances could be by an amount lower to the total investment exposure to the proposed Selected Projects. 
In this context, V.E (the “Verifier”) has been commissioned, as an independent third-party provider approved by the Climate 
Bonds Standard Board, by PKN (the “Issuer”) to perform the Pre-Issuance Verification of the Bond. This verification has 
been conducted in accordance with the Climate Bonds Standard (CB I Standard) version 3.0 requirements [i.e. Part A: 
General requirements to be applied for all Climate Bonds, and Part C: Climate Bonds Eligibility of Projects & Assets : Low 
Carbon Transport Criteria Version 2.0, Solar Criteria Version 2.1, Wind Criteria Version 1.2, Marine Renewable Energy 
Criteria Version 2.0 and Waste Management Criteria Version 1.0.] 
The work undertaken by V.E to form this verification report included:  
 Planning and management of the verification.  
 Desk review of the Bond and associated documentation provided by the Issuer.  
 Assessment of evidences provided by the PKN against the CBI standard version 3.0.  
 Internal quality control on the assurance report and conclusions.  
 Provision of V.E’s Limited Assurance Report.  
We have conducted our pre-issuance verification from February 23 to April 14, 2021. The methodology, criteria, findings 
and assurances addressed by this Limited Assurance Procedure are in accordance with releva nt general principles & 
professional standards of independent auditing, and in line with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). 
Responsibilities of the Issuer and of V.E  
This statement relies on the information provided by the Issuer to the Verifier: documentation and explanations presented 
during the assessment, based on the understanding that this information was provided to V.E in good faith. V.E has not 
performed any audit nor other test to check the accuracy of the information provided by the Issuer.  
The Issuer is fully responsible for attesting the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and their 
monitoring, and for the information provided. 
Pre-Issuance Verification 
Based on the supporting elements and explanations provided by the Issuer, nothing has come to our attention that cause 
us to believe that, in all material respects, the PKN’s 2021 Green Bond is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements (version 3.0) and with associated relevant sector -specific technical criteria. This 
level of assurance applies altogether to the Eligible Green Projects, the environmental benefits of the Bond, the evaluation 
and selection process of the assets, the proposed financial accounting system, and the monitoring & reporting system 
associated to the Bond, to be implemented over the term of the Bond. 
Project Team 
  
Adriana Cruz, Head of Sustainable Finance Research |  
adriana.cruzfelix@vigeo-eiris.com 
Maximiliano León, Sustainable Finance Analyst | 
maximiliano.leon@vigeo-eiris.com 
Pre-Issuance Verification Report  
Limited Assurance Procedure based on Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0 
 By V.E for the Polski Koncern Naftowy (PKN) Orlen’s 2021 Green Bond Issuance 
 

M a y 2021   
 
2 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
VERIFICATION CRITERIA & FINDINGS 
PKN Orlen (“hereafter “PKN” or “the Issuer”)  has declared that the Net Proceeds of its 2021 Green Bond will be 
allocated to 5 CBI classification: Solar Energy, Wind Energy, Marine Renewable Energy , Low Carbon Land Transport  
and Waste Management described in PKN’s Green Finance Framework. 
The evidence, information and explanations supporting the Bond issuance provided by PKN to V.E were both historical 
(for projects selection process and nominated projects) and hypothetical or projected (for the expected environmental 
benefits, the proposed financial accounting system, and the monitoring & reporting system associated to the Bonds, to 
be implemented over the term of the Bond).  
The Issuer showed a high responsiveness in providing information to the Verifier. We believe that the procedures we 
have performed and the evidence we have obtained are sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our findings.  
Summary criteria for a ssertions of compliance with the pre -issuance requirements of 
Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0  
V.E has assessed PKN’s 2021 Green Bond and the nominated projects and assets against criteria and requirements 
detailed within the Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0:  
- Part A: Pre-Issuance Requirements  
1. Use of Proceeds  
2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets  
3. Management of Proceeds  
4. Reporting Prior to Issuance  
- Part C: Eligibility of Projects & Assets  
1. Low Carbon Transport Criteria Version 2.0 
2. Climate Bonds Initiative Solar Criteria Version 2.1 
3.  Climate Bonds Initiative Wind Criteria Version 1.2 
4. Climate Bonds Initiative Waste Management Criteria Version 1.0 
5. Climate Bonds Initiative Marine Renewable Criteria Version 2.0 
 
 
 
M a y 2021   
 
3 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
Part A: Assessment of PKN’s 2021 Green Bond against Pre-Issuance Requirements of 
Climate Bonds Standards 
1. Use of Proceeds 
1.1. The Issuer shall document the Nominated Projects & Assets which are proposed to be associated with the 
Bond and which have been assessed as likely to be Eligible Projects & Assets. The Issuer shall establish a list 
of Nominated Projects & Assets which can be kept up to date during the term of the Bond.  
The Issuer has provided a list of projects to be financed, namely: 
- Financing of Clean transport infrastructure 
- Financing of Onshore solar thermal and Photovoltaic systems 
- Financing of Onshore wind energy facilities 
- Financing Waste management infrastructure 
- Financing of Offshore wind energy facilities 
1.2. The expected Net Proceeds of the bond shall be no greater than the Issuer’s debt obligation to the proposed 
Nominated Projects & Assets, or the Fair Market Value of the proposed Nominated Projects & Assets which 
are owned by the Issuer. 
The expected Net Proceeds of the Bond will be no greater than the Issuer’s total investment exposure to the proposed 
Selected Projects. According to the Issuer, the issuance amount will be conditional to the total amount certified. 
1.3. Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, 
Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, green loans or other labelled instruments (such as social 
bonds or SDG bonds). 
The Issuer confirms that the Selected Project has not been nominated to another Climate Bond. This can be confirmed 
through the absence of the Project from the Climate Bonds Initiative’s database1. 
 
V.E reviewed the above elements based on the information and documentation provided by the Issuer during the 
verification, and nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the PKN’s 2021 
Green Bond is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements (version 3.0) stated in 
section 1 “Use of Proceeds”. 
2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets  
2.1. The Issuer shall establish, document and maintain a decision -making process which it uses to determine the 
eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. The decision-making process shall include, without limitation: 
2.1.1. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond 
The Selected Projects are intended to contribute to climate change mitigation . This objective is formalised in the 
Framework. 
 
1 https://www.climatebonds.net/bond-library 
M a y 2021   
 
4 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
2.1.2. How the climate -related objectives of the Bond are positioned within the context of the Issuer’s 
overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability 
A description of PKN’s priorities and how they meet the international environmental challenges is included in the 
Framework. The Issuer has identified its environmental objective as being aligned with the European Parliament 
Regulation on Sustainable Investment and the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the ICMA Climate Transition 
Finance Handbook. The Framework is also aligned to the ICMA Green Bond Principles and LMA Green Loan Principles. 
2.1.3. The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond. 
PKN has identified its main environmental challenges and priorities to tackle through the eligible projects. A description 
of PKN’s priorities and how they meet the international environmental challenges is in the Framework. 
2.1.4. A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & Assets meet the eligibility requirements 
specified in Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
The governance and process for the evaluation and selection of the Selected Projects are formalised in the Framework 
and is considered relevant.  The Strategy and the Investment Committees are in charge of verifying compliance of the 
selected Green Projects with the Eligibility Criteria defined in the Framework. 
2.2. The Issuer should include under Clause 2.1 further aspects of the decision-making process, including:  
2.2.1. Related eligibility criteria, including, if applicable, exclusion criteria or another process, applied to 
identify and manage potentially material enviro nmental, social or governance risks associated with the 
Nominated Projects & Assets.  
The Selection and Exclusion criteria are formalised in the Framework. The Strategy and the Investment Committees 
conduct annual reviews of compliance of the projects with the Eligibility criteria. 
2.2.2. Any green standards or certifications referenced in the selection of Nominated Projects & Assets. 
The Issuer applies an Integrated Management System (IMS) to verify the environmental and social compliance of the 
selected projects. The IMS comprises several environmental and quality certifications including Quality Management 
System based on the PN-EN ISO 9001 and AQAP 2110 standards, Environmental Management System based on the PN-
EN ISO 14001 standard and Occupational Health and Safety Management System based on the PN-N-18001 standard, 
among others. 
2.2.3. The Issuer shall assess that all proposed Nominated Projects & Assets to be associated with the Bond 
meet the documented objectives as stated under Clause 2.1 .1 and are likely to conform to the relevant 
eligibility requirements under Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
The Issuer reports to comply with environmental regulation and to conduct the required Environmental Impact 
Assessments. The Strategy and Investment Committees will review the compliance of the projects with the Eligibility 
criteria.  
 
 
V.E reviewed the above elements based on the information and documentation provided by the Issuer during the 
verification, and nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the PKN’s 2021 
Green Bond is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements (version 3.0) stated in 
section 2 “Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets”. 
 
M a y 2021   
 
5 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
3. Management of Proceeds 
3.1. The systems, policies and processes to be used for management of the Net Proceeds shall be documented by 
the Issuer and disclosed to the Verifier, and shall include arrangements for the following activities: 
3.1.1. Tracking of proceeds: The Net Proceeds of the Bond can be credited to a sub-account, moved to a sub-
portfolio, or otherwise tracked by the Issuer in an appropriate manner and documented. 
The Issuer reports that the Net Proceeds of the Bonds will be managed by  PKN ORLEN’s Finance Department , which 
will verify that the allocation of the Bonds’ net funds c oincides nominally with the disbursements made to the Eligible 
Green Projects, until the full allocation of funds. 
3.1.2. Managing unallocated proceeds: The balance of unallocated Net Proceeds can be managed as per the 
requirements in Clause 7.2. 
Unallocated proceeds will be invested in bank deposits and used to temporarily reduce indebtedness of a revolving 
nature. 
3.1.3. Earmarking funds to Nominated Projects & Assets: The earmarking process can be used to manage and 
account for funding to the Nominated Projects & Assets and enables estimation of the share of the Net 
Proceeds being used for financing and refinancing. 
The Issuer states that in case of refinancing the look-back period for Eligible expenses covering capital and/or operational 
expenditures will be less or equal to 36 months from the year of issuance. 
 
V.E reviewed the above elements based on the information and documentation provided by the Issuer during the 
verification, and nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the PKN’s 2021 
Green Bond is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements (version 3.0) stated in 
section 3 “Management of Proceeds”. 
 
4. Reporting prior to issuance 
4.1. The Issuer shall prepare a Green Bond Framework and make it publicly available prior to Issuance or at the 
time of Issuance. The Green Bond Framework shall include, without limitation:  
4.1.1. Confirmation that the Bonds issued under the Green Bond Framework are aligned with the Climate Bonds 
Standard. This may include statements of alignment with other applicable standards, such as the EU 
Green Bond Standard, the ASEAN Green Bond Standard, Chin ese domestic regulations, Japanese 
Green Bond Guidelines, etc. 
The issuer will follow the ICMA Green Bond Principles and LMA Green Loan Principles. 
 
4.1.2. A summary of the expected use of proceeds, as defined under Clause 1.1, and the expected contribution 
of the relevant sectors or sub -sectors to the rapid transition required to achieve the goals of the Paris 
Climate Agreement. 
The Framework includes a description of the Eligible Projects , as defined under Clause 1.1. 
M a y 2021   
 
6 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
4.1.3. A description of the decision-making process, as defined under Clause 2.1, with particular reference to 
the requirements in Clause 2.1.2. 
The Framework includes a description of the decision -making process, as defined under Clause 2.1, with particular 
reference to the requirements in Clause 2.1.2. 
4.1.4. Information on the methodology and assumptions to be used for: confirming, where required by relevant 
Sector Eligibility Criteria, the characteristics or performance of Nominated Projects & Assets required to 
conform to the relevant e ligibility requirements under Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard; and any 
other additional impact metrics that the Issuer will define. 
The Issuer has committed to disclose in the reporting documentation the methodology and assumptions to be used for 
the calculation of impact reporting indicators.  
4.1.5. A summary of the approach to the management of unallocated Net Proceeds in accordance with Clause 
3.1. 
A summary of the approach to the management of unallocated Net Proceeds is included in the Framework (see Cl ause 
3.1.) Additionally, PKN will report the remaining balance of unallocated proceeds in an annual report. 
4.1.6. The intended approach to providing Update Reports to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the Loan remains outstanding. 
The Issuer commits to appoint an approved CBI Verifier to conduct the mandatory Post - Issuance compliance review 
within a period of one year after the issuance, in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard requirement. 
4.1.7. The list of proposed Nominated Projects & Assets associated with the Bond and the investment areas, as 
provided in Clause 9.1, into which the Nominated Projects & Assets fall. Where there are limits on the 
amount of detail that can be made available about specific Nominated Projects & Assets, information 
shall be presented on the investment areas which the Nominated Projects & Assets fall into, as provided 
in Clause 9.1, and the Issuer shall provide an explanation of why detail on Nominated Projects & Assets 
is limited.  
The issuer will include examples of projects but because of  confidentiality a full list may not be published. Allocations 
on a consolidated basis by Green Bond Principles categories will be published. 
4.1.8. Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used for refinancing, an estimate of the share of the Net 
Proceeds used  for financing and refinancing, and the relevant Nominated Projects & Assets or 
investment areas which may be refinanced. This may also include the expected look -back period for 
refinanced Nominated Projects & Assets. 
The share of refinancing will be communicated to investors prior to the issuance in the Issuer’s website. 
4.2. The Issuer shall include in the Disclosure Documentation:  
4.2.1. The investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, into which the Nominated Projects & Assets fall.  
The selected Projects falls in the ”Solar”, “Wind”, “Marine renewable”, “Waste Management “and  “Low carbon  
transport” classification of Climate Bonds Taxonomy. 
M a y 2021   
 
7 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
4.2.2. The intended types of temporary investment instruments for the management of unallocated Net 
Proceeds in accordance with Clause 7.3. 
Unallocated proceeds will be invested in bank deposits and used to temporarily reduce indebtedness of a revolving 
nature. 
4.2.3. The Verifier engaged by the Issuer for the mandatory verification engagements. 
The Issuer has commissioned V.E (the “Verifier”) as an independent third-party provider approved by the Climate Bonds 
Standards Board to perform the Pre-Issuance Verification of the Bond. 
4.2.4. The intended approach to providing Update Reports to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the Bond remains outstanding, including the location of the published documents. 
The rules about the reporting are disclosed in the Framework. The report will be published in the Issuer’s website. 
4.2.5. The Climate Bonds Initiative Disclaimer provided in the Certification Agreement. 
The Issuer states that they will provide the CBI’s disclaimer in the certification agreement. 
 
 
V.E reviewed the above elements based on the information and documentation provided by the Issuer during the 
verification, and nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the PKN’s 2021 
Green Bond is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements (version 3.0) stated in 
section 4 “Reporting prior to issuance”. 
 
M a y 2021   
 
8 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
Part C: Climate Bonds Eligibility of Projects & Assets: Sector Specific Criteria 
Technical criteria for Selected Projects & Assets: 
1. Low Carbon Transport Criteria Version 2.0 
CBI REQUIREMENTS V.E’S FACTUAL FINDINGS  GAP ANALYSIS 
1. Technical Criteria for Eligible Projects and Assets : Low Carbon Transport 
- Infrastructure related to electric transportation of 
passengers and freight such as (fast) charging 
stations and hydrogen fuelling stations. 
Eligible Green Projects falling in this sub- category are automatically eligible for 
Certification under Low Carbon Transport (Version 2.0). 
None 
 
2. Solar Criteria Version 2.1 
CBI REQUIREMENTS V.E’S FACTUAL FINDINGS  GAP ANALYSIS 
2. Technical Criteria for Eligible Projects and Assets : Solar  
- Solar Energy: Onshore and photovoltaics (PV), 
concentrated solar power (CSP) and solar thermal 
facilities. 
 
Eligible Green Projects will not have more than 15% of electricity generated from 
non-renewable sources. 
None 
 
3. Wind Criteria Version 1.2 
CBI REQUIREMENTS V.E’S FACTUAL FINDINGS  GAP ANALYSIS 
3. Technical Criteria for Eligible Projects and Assets: Wind  
- Wind energy: onshore windfarm generation 
facilities. 
Eligible Green Projects will not have more than 15% of electricity generated from 
non-renewable sources. 
None 
 
M a y 2021   
 
9 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
4. Waste Management Criteria Version 1.0 - Mitigation criteria 
CBI REQUIREMENTS V.E’S FACTUAL FINDINGS  GAP ANALYSIS 
4.1 Technical Criteria for Eligible Projects and Assets: Waste Management 
- Preparation: construction of an automatic sorting 
plant for mixed municipal waste 
Eligible Green Projects will be for 100% recycled and recyclable materials. None 
- Recycling: construction of a mechanical and 
chemical recycling plant, infrastructure for 
mechanical recycling of waste, infrastructure for 
chemical recycling of waste. 
Eligible Green Projects will produce secondary raw materials (such as steel, 
aluminium, glass, plastics) that will cease to be waste and will be sold to be used 
as secondary raw materials. 
None 
 
 
4.2 Waste Management Criteria version 1.0 – Adaptation & Resilience  
The Issuer has disclosed to V.E a document with the main characteristics of the assets falling under this CBI sector criteria, which include: 
- Project Combo: Considers the construction of an automatic sorting plant for mixed municipal waste and infrastructure for chemical recycling of waste (includes preparation and recycling). 
- Project Pigoz: Considers the construction of mechanical and chemical recycling plants. 
- Orlen-Unipetrol – mechanical recycling: Infrastructure for mechanical recycling of waste. 
- Orlen-Unipetrol –chemical recycling: Infrastructure for chemical recycling of waste. 
  
M a y 2021   
 
10 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF PREPARATION AND RECYCLING FACILITIES 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
Section 1: The issuer identifies the climate related risks and vulnerabilities to the asset/site 
1.1 Processes are in place (as part of both the asset design and  ongoing management) to assess key 
risks to the assets from a changing climate. 
 
These key risks should include the following, plus any others felt to be of concern for the operation 
of these assets. The risks should be identified and interpreted in terms of the impact on the asset 
and the related effects for the business – e.g. impact on operating feasibility and schedules, and 
potential system outages, impact on maintenance requirements etc. 
 
N.B. This list taken from World Banks Climate and Disaster Risk Assessment Tool 
- Temperature changes, and extremes in temperature 
- Extreme precipitation and flooding 
- Drought 
- Sea level rise and storm surge 
- Strong winds 
How these affect the asset or site in question will be highly variable and will be for the issuer to 
identify and relate to their operations. These assessments should use climate information, modelling 
and scenarios from a peer-reviewed source. 
 
This assessment should be done regularly. The frequency of the assessment will depend on the 
nature of the climate related risks and vulnerabilities and should be specified by the issuer an d 
reported against in subsequent annual reporting. 
Project Combo 
According to the information provided by the Issuer, the asset will 
not be affected by any of the risks considered in the Risk Assessment 
Tool, including flooding, drought, sea level rise, among others.  
The Issuer reports extreme temperature and extreme temperature 
changes will be considered during the design stage to assure optimal 
operation conditions. 
 
Good 
Project Pigoz 
The Issuer will conduct an assessment for direct and indirect risks of 
investment as well as Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) 
according to EU countries regulatory authorities.  Prior to 
construction, in accordance with national and EU regulations, 
assessments must be carried out when the assets have an expected 
impact on the environment and population, including human health 
and living conditions, material goods, monuments, and landscape 
(including cultural landscape). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Good 
M a y 2021   
 
11 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF PREPARATION AND RECYCLING FACILITIES 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
Orlen-Unipetrol –mechanical and chemical recycling 
The Issuer will conduct an assessment for direct and indirect risks of 
investment as well as Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) 
according to the requirements set by EU countries regulatory 
authorities. Prior to construction, in accordance with national and EU 
regulations, assessments must be carried out when the assets have 
an expected impact on the environment and population, including 
human health and living conditions, material goods, monuments, and 
landscape (including cultural landscape). 
 
Good 
Section 2: The issuer identifies the impacts in larger context (spatially and temporally) beyond the asset/site (i.e. the impacts of the underlying assets and projects on the broader ecosystem and stakeholders in that 
ecosystem) 
2.1 Processes should be in place (as part of both the asset design and ongoing management) to assess 
the impact of the waste management asset on the climate resilience of other stakeholders in the 
social, economic, and environmental system in which it operates and how to mitigate  or reduce 
any negative impacts 
These assessments address: 
- Any ways in which waste management facilities might 
- affect the climate resilience of other stakeholders? 
- Any ways in which waste management facilities improve the adaptation capacity of other 
users/stakeholders? 
- For example, they may include: 
- Impact on water quality and quantity for other users in the basin 
- Waste and pollution emitted 
- Fire hazards 
Project Combo 
The Issuer reports the plant will not have negative effects on the 
climate resilience of other stakeholders since the plant will not 
produce any waste that requires disposal or landfilling. 
 
The Issuer also reports CO2 from the facility will not be emitted to 
the atmosphere but captured and used as technical gas in food 
industry or as feed for future Carbon Capture and utilization (CCU) 
installations. 
 
Good 
Project Pigoz 
The Issuer indicates that the processes in place to prevent and 
reduce the negative impact of the project will be accepted by the 
regulatory authorities of EU countries, in accordance with the 
required EIAs.    
Good 
  
 
M a y 2021   
 
12 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF PREPARATION AND RECYCLING FACILITIES 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
Orlen-Unipetrol – chemical recycling 
The Issuer quotes a life-cycle assessment study conducted by Sphera 
for BASF Group 2  which concluded that the chemical recycling 
(pyrolysis) of mixed plastic waste – the process used in these projects 
- emits 50% less CO2 than incineration of mixed plastic waste. 
 
Good 
Orlen Unipetrol - mechanical and chemical recycling 
The Issuer will report the possibilities and methods for preventing 
and reducing the negative impacts of the project on the environment. 
Project will be analysed and accepted by regulatory authorities in 
accordance with EIA in EU countries. 
 
Good 
Section 3: The issuer has designed and implemented strategies to mitigate and adapt to these climate risks and vulnerabilities 
3.1 An adaptation plan has been designed and is being implemented to address the risks identified in 
the assessments above. 
The issuer has designed or amended asset maintenance plans to ensure that scheduled 
maintenance is sufficient to cope with the ongoing impacts of climate change; and a plan has been 
established to govern how to approach emergency maintenance needs arising from sudden climate 
change impacts (e.g. extreme storms). 
The issuer has training, capacity and governance arrangements in place for how the organisation 
will deal with the impacts of exceptional events (e.g. droughts, floods, severe pollution event s, 
extreme storms, winds etc.). 
The issuer has monitoring and reporting systems and processes to identify high risk scenarios. 
The issuer has contingency plans to address disruption to operations or loss of the asset and any 
resulting environmental or social damage. 
The issuer has processes for feeding risk assessment back into decision-making. 
Project Combo 
The Issuer indicates that the risks of major accidents as well as 
natural and construction disasters will be assessed through EIA and 
will be accepted by regulatory authorities for EU countries at the 
appropriate stage of the project. 
 
Good 
Project Pigoz 
The Issuer indicates that the risks of major accidents as well as 
natural and construction disasters will be assessed through EIA and 
will be accepted by regulatory authorities for EU countries at the 
appropriate stage of the project. 
 
The Issuer also reports the required scope of monitoring will be  
controlled. 
 
Good 
 
2 https://www.basf.com/global/en/who-we-are/sustainability/we-drive-sustainable-solutions/circular-economy/mass-balance-approach/chemcycling/lca-for-chemcycling.html 
M a y 2021   
 
13 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF PREPARATION AND RECYCLING FACILITIES 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
The issuer has a budget allocated to implementing the adaptation plan and has a named member 
of staff responsible for its implementation. 
The issuer complies with any existing broader or higher-level adaptation plans, such as NAPAs. 
Orlen-Unipetrol –mechanical and chemical recycling 
The Issuer indicates that the risks of major accidents as well as 
natural and construction disasters will be assessed through EIA and 
will be accepted by regulatory authorities for EU countries at the 
appropriate stage of the project. 
 
The Issuer also reports the required scope of monitoring will be  
controlled. 
 
Good 
 
  
M a y 2021   
 
14 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
 
5. Marine Renewables Version 2.0:  
5.1. Disclosure component: In the interests of transparency and disclosure, Issuer of Certified Climate Bonds are required to publicly disclose the following in respect to the assets and use of 
proceeds incorporated in that issuance:  
The Issuer has created a dedicated website3 for the Selected Project. The following information will be publicly accessible on the website: 
REQUIREMENT DISCLOSURE EVIDENCE MET 
1 
Project location and size, including description of marine coastal 
ecosystem in proximity to planned installations, noting for example 
whether located in marine protected areas or vulnerable marine 
ecosystems 
The project is located 23 km to the north of the Polish coastline, on the level of Choczewo and Łeba, in 
the Polish Exclusive Economic Zone in the Baltic Sea.4 yes 
2 Projected lifespan of the asset/project Projected lifespan if 25 years.  yes 
3 
Key stakeholders involved, including other users of the area and 
surrounding area (sea, land or air depending on what is applicable) 
of the facility (ies) 
The engagement of key stakeholders is described in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report. 
yes 
4 Description of the project activities including details on installation, 
operation and decommissioning activities 
Whole description of the project activities is included in the EIA Report.  
yes 
5 Expected/current facility capacity and generation during and after 
the life of the bond 
As reported in the project website, the Issuer holds a licence to construct an up to 1.2 GW wind farm, 
but its final capacity will depend on a number of factors, such as the geological conditions of the Baltic 
Seabed, environmental conditions and technological developments. 
yes 
6 Details of where the energy generated is being fed into, and 
estimated impact of the grid mix 
As reported in the project website the infrastructure to be built in Choczewo will receive electricity from 
the offshore wind farm and transmit it into the national power grid. In the onshore section, 220 kV 
underground cables will be laid as an extension of the submarine cables. They will carry the electricity 
to Żarnowiec Bis, a new substation under construction whose precise locati on is yet to be determined, 
and further by transmission lines to locations across Poland. 
The expected impact on the grid is of Baltic Power estimated impact on the grid mix will be ca. 1,2 
GW/ca. 50GW (2,4%). 
yes 
 
3 https://www.balticpower.pl/ 
4 https://www.balticpower.pl/about-the-project/  
M a y 2021   
 
15 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
REQUIREMENT DISCLOSURE EVIDENCE MET 
7 Projected avoided GHG emissions compared to fossil fuel 
counterfactual (in kgCO2e) using recognised conversion factors 
Expected avoided GHG emissions compared to fossil fuel counterfactual (in mgCO2e): 3,03 m tons 
CO2 annually. 
yes 
8 The planning standards, environmental regulations and other 
regulations that the project has been required to comply with 
Pursuant to the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 10 September 2019 on projects that may have 
a significant impact on the environment (Jour nal of Laws of 2019, item 1839), the Baltic Power OWF 
project is classified as a project that may always have a significant impact on the environment, and 
therefore it required an environmental impact assessment that included: 
- Verification of environmental impact assessment report 
- Obtaining opinions and approvals required by law 
- Ensuring the possibility of public participation in the procedure. 
 
yes 
 
 
5.2. Mitigation Component  
Marine Renewable Energy Dedicated transmission infrastructure automatically pass the mitigation component when in compliance with the requirement that Fossil fuel back up can only be used 
for restart capability and monitoring, operating or resilience measures in the event of no power in the system. 
 
 
 
 
  
M a y 2021   
 
16 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
5.3. Adaptation & Resilience Requirements 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF A MARINE RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITY 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
Section 1: The issuer understands the climate related risks and vulnerabilities to the asset/ site 
1.1 Processes are in place (as part of both the asset design and ongoing management) to assess key risks to 
the assets from a changing climate and its impact on marine conditions 
These key risks should include the following, plus any others felt to be of concern for the 
operation of these assets. The risks should be identified and interpreted in terms of the impact on the asset 
and the related effects for the business – e.g. impact on operating feasibility and schedules and potential 
system outages, impact on maintenance requirements etc. 
For all facilities 
- Sea level rise and storm surge 
- Extreme precipitation and flooding 
- Increase in geophysical hazards such as earthquakes, tsunamis, vo lcanic eruptions, and 
landslides 
- Changes in wind and storm patterns and intensity 
- Changes in ocean temperature, currents, and salinity levels 
The issuer understands what level of climate change would mean the asset/site is no longer viable and 
understands under which climate change scenarios this would happen. 
These processes and assessments use climate information, modelling and scenarios based on peer 
reviewed methodologies and literature and considering the variability in modelled scenarios. 
If a project does not have any climate related risks or vulnerabilities evidence must be given to show how 
this was determined. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer provided the Baltic Power Offshore Windfarm (OWF) 
project's Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA). 
According to the IEA, the project received a permit of the Polish 
Minister of Transport, Construction and Maritime Economy for 
construction and use of artificial islands, structures, and devices in 
the Polish Maritime Areas.  
Pursuant to the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 10 
September 2019 on projects that may have a significant impact on 
the environment (Journal of Laws of 2019, item 1839), the Baltic 
Power OWF project is classified as a project that may always have 
a significant impact on the environment, and therefore it required 
an environmental impact assessment that included: 
- Verification of environmental impact assessment report 
- Obtaining opinions and approvals required by law 
- Ensuring the possibility of public participation in the 
procedure. 
 
The EIA included several surveys on the abiotic and biotic 
elements of the marine environment where the project is located. 
Good 
M a y 2021   
 
17 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF A MARINE RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITY 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
Section 2: The issuer understands the improvements and impacts in the larger context (spatially and temporally) beyond the asset/site. (i.e. the impacts of their own assets and activities on the broader ecosystem and 
stakeholders in that ecosystem) 
2.1 Processes are in place (as part of both the asset design, ongoing operation and 
decommissioning) to assess the improvements and impacts the asset has on the resilience of other 
stakeholders in the system in which it operates 
These assessments address: 
- Any ways in which renewable energy facilities might affect, both positively and negatively, the 
climate resilience of other marine users or relevant/local stakeholders/communities 
- Any ways in which renewable energy facilities improve the adaptation capacity of other marine 
users or relevant/local stakeholders/communities. 
e.g. Any potential impacts on other marine stakeholders of a highly dense concentration of renewable 
energy facilities or associated transmission lines? 
e.g. Any potential impacts that renewable energy facilities may have on coastal resilience by taking strength 
out of the wind, waves, tidal flows, tidal range or by altering sedimentation processes? 
If a project does not have any impacts beyond the asset/site evidence must be given to show how this was 
determined. 
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) cover all relevant 
impacts in the larger context, including the construction and 
exploitation phase as well as the decommissioning phase. 
 
Good 
Section 3: The issuer has designed and implemented strategies to mitigate and adapt to these climate risks and vulnerabilities 
3.1 An adaptation plan has been designed and is being implemented to address the risks 
identified in assessments outlined above. 
All risks identified are being addressed in the design and management of the asset. 
The issuer has designed or amended asset maintenance plans to ensure that scheduled 
maintenance is sufficient to cope with the ongoing impacts of climate change and a plan has been 
established to govern how they approach emergency maintenance needs arising from sudden climate 
change impacts (e.g. extreme storms) 
The issuer has remotely controlled or automated shutdown procedures, training, capacity, and governance 
arrangements in place to manage the impacts of exceptional events (such as extreme storms, winds etc.) 
The issuer has monitoring and reporting systems and processes to identify high risk scenarios 
The EIA includes an assessment of the main Environmental Threats 
throughout the Construction and Exploitation phases. 
 
The EIA Report states the Issuer has implemented collision and 
leakage management plans for the duration of the project, aimed 
at minimising the impact of such events on marine organisms, in 
accordance with the applicable laws. 
Good 
M a y 2021   
 
18 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF A MARINE RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITY 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
The issuer has contingency plans to address disruptions to operations or loss of the asset and any resulting 
environmental or social damage. 
The issuer has processes for feeding risk assessments back into decision making 
The issuer has a budget allocated to implementing the adaptation plan and has a named member of staff 
responsible for its implementation. 
The issuer complies with any existing broader or higher-level adaption plans, such as NAPAs. 
 
 
3.2 Inspections are carried out regularly and there is a maintenance regime in place for future inspections with 
evidence that this is adhered to. 
The proposal for the monitoring of the environmental impact of the 
project includes the schedules of individual monitoring surveys. 
According to the EIA report, the surveys for the assessment of the 
abiotic and biotic elements of the marine environment are 
conducted at least annually. These include geophysical, 
meteorological, hydrological, geochemical, and acoustic surveys. 
Good 
Section 4: Issuer is pursuing strategies that promote resilience and adaptation across the area in which it operates and beyond 
4.1 Issuer is involved in stakeholder engagement and collaboration (e.g. policy development, 
consultation, collaboration, and active engagement with other marine users) 
e.g. Engaging in hazard response planning for the area, or recovery planning and operations after severe 
events 
e.g. Pursuing potential climate resilience benefits for the local area that could be delivered by the marine 
renewable energy facility, such as a tidal lagoon providing additional storm surge protection for local towns 
e.g. Alterations made to day-to-day operating procedures in response to stakeholder 
engagement 
The EIA Report indicates the projects of strategic documents along 
with environmental impact forecasts were subject to a public 
participation procedure along with social consultations conducted 
by the competent administrative authorities prior to their adoption. 
The report identified the different stakeholders involved including 
administration and state institutions, local government units and 
institutions, trade organisations, including fishing organisations, 
among others. 
As part of the preparation of the EIA Report, information meetings 
were held with the representatives of fishermen organisations in 
March 2020. The main conclusions of these meeting have also 
been disclosed in the report.  
 
 
 
 
Good 
M a y 2021   
 
19 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF A MARINE RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITY 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
Section 5: Issuer is delivering positive impacts (or no harm) in terms of key sustainability indicators 
5.1 The asset or project does not put in jeopardy endangered or at -risk species or habitats or  unduly impact 
ecosystem services.  Where there are possible negative impacts to habitats,  species, biodiversity, or 
ecosystem services, mitigation measures are implemented to offset the negative impacts. 
E.g. Noise and vibration generated by marine renewable energy arrays may disrupt animals, such as marine 
mammals, fish, birds, turtles, and invertebrates that rely on sound for navigation  and other essential 
functions. The potential for collision -related injury or mortality of marine  animals is a key parameter for 
impact assessment, particularly for tidal energy projects. 
Alteration of water circulation, sediment transport, and other physical flows by marine  renewable energy 
devices as well as introduction of new electromagnetic fields (e.g. via suspended or seafloor cables) may 
negatively impact habitat quality. This might be especially  relevant for tidal barrage but  should be 
considered for all marine renewable arrays. 
N.B. In many jurisdictions this will be well covered by existing regulatory or licensing 
requirements, and thos e can be referenced here if they provide sufficient evidence to cover this  
requirement. 
The Environmental Impact Assessment cover all relevant impacts in 
terms of habitats, species, biodiversity, or ecosystem service.  
 
Good 
5.2 Waste is responsibly dealt with, including appropriate disposal of construction waste and oil-based 
lubricants, including recycling options where possible. Also, reuse or recycling where possible of 
equipment after decommissioning. 
 
N.B. In many jurisdictions this will be well covered by existing regulatory or licensing 
requirements, and those can be referenced here if they provide sufficient evidence to cover this  
requirement. 
The Issuer reports in each phase of the project implementation, 
mandatory legal requirements and good practices will be applied 
regarding waste and sewage treatment. 
The Issuer also states a ll vessels involved in the project will meet 
the requirements and will comply with the regulations resulting 
from the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution 
from Ships (MARPOL 73/78), including, in particular, the 
procedures contained in “Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency 
Plans”. 
The expected types and quantities of waste generated during the 
exploitation phase of the project were i dentified and included in 
the EIA report in accordance with the Regulation of the Minister of 
the Environment of 02 January 2020 on Waste Catalogue. 
Good 
M a y 2021   
 
20 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
CHECKLIST FOR EVALUATING THE ISSUER’S ADAPTATION & RESILIENCE PERFORMANCE IN RESPECT OF A MARINE RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITY 
ITEM PROOF GIVEN OVERALL ASSESSMENT 
5.3 The issuer has recognised and listed the potential risks for accidental site contamination either from leakage 
of hydraulic fluid (or any other potential pollutant) or from wreckage/debris on the seabed. Demonstrable 
steps have been taken to minimise these risks and plans have been made for clean -up should a site 
contamination event occur. 
 
 
The Environmental Impact Assessment cover all relevant impacts in 
terms of risks for accidental site contamination. 
Good 
5.4 Decommissioning of the plant is planned in a way that considers the environmental impacts.  
 
N.B. In many jurisdictions this will be well covered by existing regulatory or licensing 
requirements, and those can be referenced here if they provide sufficient evidence to cove r this 
requirement. 
 
The EIA report states the decommissioning phase is a reversal of 
the OWF project construction phase. In the reverse order of the 
construction phase, individual OWF components will be removed 
and transported to disposal sites. 
 
Good 
5.5 Issuer has plans and processes in place to effectively manage and minimise conflict with other users of the 
marine and coastal space. 
 
N.B. In some jurisdictions this will be well covered by existing regulatory or licensing 
requirements, national or regional marine plans and/ or marine spatial plans, and the application of or 
conformity with these regulations or plans can be referenced here if they provide sufficient evidence to 
cover this requirement. 
The EIA report includes an analysis of possible social conflicts 
related to the planned project, including the analysis of impacts on 
the local community. 
The public consultations for the implementation of the project were 
based on national and EU legal requirements. 
The project is located in the Baltic Sea within the Polish Exclusive 
Economic Zone (EEZ), north of the seashore, at the height of Rowy-
Łeba towns, at a distance of approx. 23 to 36 km from the shore.  
According to the EIA Report, the target groups for conducting 
information meetings were selected taking into account a number 
of criteria such as, the nature of the project, its location, potential 
impacts of the planned project, and the degree and type of interest 
of various social groups identified during other investments at sea. 
Good 
 
  
M a y 2021   
 
21 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
List of supporting elements provided by the Issuer for Pre-Issuance verification: 
- PKN’s Green Financing Framework 
- Answer to V.E’s Questionnaire 
- Report on the Environmental Impact Assessment of the Baltic Power Offshore Wind Farm 
- PKN recycling projects list 
- List of Eligible Projects 
 
 
M a y 202 1   
 
22 
Copyright V.E 2021 – Reproduction of this content in whole or in part are prohibited without the express written authorization of V.E 
and is protected by the provision of the French Intellectual Property Code. 
DISCLAIMER 
Transparency on the relation between V.E and the Issuer: V.E has not carried out any audit mission or consultancy activity for PKN Orlen . No established 
relation (financial or commercial) exists between V.E and the Issuer. V.E’s conflict of interest policy is covered by its Code of Conduct, which can be found 
at http://vigeo-eiris.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/Code-of-Conduct-Vigeo-Eiris-EN.pdf. 
This opinion aims at providing a post-issuance independent review on the sustainability credentials and management of the Bonds based on the information 
which has been made available to V.E. V.E has neither interviewed stakeholders out of the Issue r’s employees, nor performed an on -site audit nor other 
test to check the accuracy of the information provided by the Issuer. The accuracy, comprehensiveness and trustworthiness of the information collected are 
a responsibility of the Issuer. Providing thi s review does not mean that V.E certifies the effectiveness, the excellence or the irreversibility of the assets 
financed by the Bonds. The Issuer is fully responsible for attesting the compliance with its commitments defined in its polic ies, for their imp lementation 
and their monitoring. The opinion delivered by V.E neither focuses on the financial performance of the Bonds, nor on the effective allocation of its 
proceeds. V.E is not liable for the induced consequences when third parties use this opinion either to make investments decisions or to mak e any kind of 
business transaction. 
Restriction on distribution and use of this opinion: the opinion is provided by V.E to the Issuer and can only be used by the Issuer. The distribution and 
publication are at the discretion of the Issuer, submitted to V.E approval. 
 
© 2021 Vigeo SAS and/or its licensors and subsidiaries (collectively, “V.E”). All rights reserved.  
 
V.E’S RESEARCH DOES NOT ADDRESS NON -ESG FACTORS AND/OR RISKS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: CREDIT RISK, LIQUIDITY RISK, 
MARKET VALUE RISK, OR PRICE VOLATILITY. V.E’S RESEARCH DOES NOT CONSTITUTE STATEMENTS OF CURRENT OR HISTORICAL FACT. V.E’S 
RESEARCH: (i) DOES NOT CONSTIT UTE OR PROVIDE CREDIT RATINGS OR INVESTMENT OR FINANCIAL ADVICE; (ii) IS NOT AND DOES NOT 
PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS TO PURCHASE, SELL, OR HOLD PARTICULAR SECURITIES; AND (iii) DOES NOT COMMENT ON THE SUITABILITY 
OF AN INVESTMENT FOR ANY PARTICULAR INVESTOR. V.E ISSUES ITS RESEARCH WITH THE EXPECTATION AND UNDERSTANDING THAT EACH 
INVESTOR WILL, WITH DUE CARE, MAKE ITS OWN STUDY AND EVALUATION OF EACH SECURITY THAT IS UNDER CONSIDERATION FOR 
PURCHASE, HOLDING, OR SALE.  
 
V.E’S RESEARCH IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE B Y RETAIL INVESTORS AND IT WOULD BE RECKLESS AND INAPPROPRIATE FOR RETAIL INVESTORS 
TO USE V.E’S RESEARCH WHEN MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. IF IN DOUBT YOU SHOULD CONTACT YOUR FINANCIAL OR OTHER 
PROFESSIONAL ADVISER. V.E’S RESEARCH IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE  BY ANY PERSON AS A BENCHMARK AS THAT TERM IS DEFINED FOR 
REGULATORY PURPOSES AND MUST NOT BE USED IN ANY WAY THAT COULD RESULT IN THEM BEING CONSIDERED A BENCHMARK.  
 
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS PROTECTED BY LAW, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, COPY RIGHT LAW, AND NONE OF SUCH 
INFORMATION MAY BE COPIED OR OTHERWISE REPRODUCED, REPACKAGED, FURTHER TRANSMITTED, TRANSFERRED, DISSEMINATED, 
REDISTRIBUTED OR RESOLD, OR STORED FOR SUBSEQUENT USE FOR ANY SUCH PURPOSE, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, IN ANY FORM OR MANNE R 
OR BY ANY MEANS WHATSOEVER, BY ANY PERSON WITHOUT V.E’S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.  
 
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS OBTAINED BY V.E FROM SOURCES BELIEVED BY IT TO BE ACCURATE AND RELIABLE. BECAUSE OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF HUMAN OR MECHANICAL ERROR AS WELL A S OTHER FACTORS, HOWEVER, ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS 
PROVIDED “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING AS TO THE ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, COMPLETENESS, 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. V.E IS NOT AN A UDITOR AND CANNOT IN EVERY INSTANCE INDEPENDENTLY 
VERIFY OR VALIDATE INFORMATION IT RECEIVES.  
 
To the extent permitted by law, V.E and its directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, licensors and suppliers (together, “V.E Parties”) disclaim 
liability to any person or entity for any (a) indirect, special, consequential, or incidental losses or damages, and (b) dire ct or compensatory losses or 
damages caused to any person or entity, including but not limited to by any negligence (but excluding fraud, wilful misconduct or any other type of liability 
that, for the avoidance of doubt, by law cannot be excluded); on the part of, or any contingency within or beyond the control  of any V.E Party, arising 
from or in connection with the information contained herein or the use of or inability to use any such information .