CLIMATE BONDS 
STANDARD
Globally recognised, Paris-aligned 
Certification of Debt Instruments, 
Entities and Assets using robust, 
science-based methodologies
Updated February 2024
Version 4.1
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 2
The Climate Bonds Standard  
and Certification Scheme
The Climate Bonds Standard and Certification Scheme is a voluntary labelling scheme 
for investments – and now entities – that address the challenge of climate change and 
are consistent with the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. The Scheme was launched 
in 2012 by the Climate Bonds Initiative, a not-for-profit organisation working to mobilise 
global capital for climate action. 
The Standard was initially designed to support confidence in the climate change 
credentials of green bonds and other debt instruments and to facilitate investment 
decision-making.  Since the Scheme was launched, over USD300bn of Use of Proceeds 
green instruments have been certified under the Climate Bonds Standard. Version 4.1 of 
the Standard expands certification coverage to  general-purpose instruments (such as  
sustainability-linked  bonds), assets and entities.
Certification under this expanded Standard confirms that debt instruments, assets or entities 
meet criteria published under the Climate Bonds Standard. Transparently developed 
scientific criteria underpin the Standard, and a network of Climate Bonds Approved Verifiers 
provides independent assessment. An international, independent Climate Bonds Standard 
Board, comprised of institutional investor representatives and appointed by the Trustees of 
the Climate Bonds Initiative, provides oversight of the Scheme.
This document details the requirements for certification under the Climate Bonds Standard 
version 4.1 for all of the following: 
A. Use of Proceeds (UoPs) debt Instruments.  
The proceeds of such instruments are allocated to specific projects, 
assets, activities, or expenditures which align with the Climate Bonds 
sector-specific criteria.
B. Assets.  
This involves certification of the environmental credentials of  
specific projects, assets, or activities, following the Climate Bonds 
sector-specific criteria.
C. Non-Financial Legal Entities.  
This certification is available to legal entities that provide  
non-financial goods and services, or a segregated segment thereof.  
This certification covers:
a. Entities that have ambitious Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
that are aligned with the Climate Bonds Sector Criteria at the time of 
Certification, or that will align by 2030, and that meet the requirements 
for Transition Plan and disclosure, as defined in this Standard; or
b. General-purpose debt instruments issued by Certified Entities that 
meet the requirements above.

Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 3
D. Sustainability-Linked Debt instruments issued  
by non-financial legal entities.  
These instruments are eligible for Certification if the Climate  
Mitigation Performance Targets linked to them are aligned with  
the Climate Bonds Sector Criteria and supported by a Transition Plan 
and disclosure requirements that meet the requirements defined in  
this Standard.
Sector specific criteria for eligible projects, assets or activities can be found on the 
Climate Bonds website, under “Sector Criteria Available for Certification” https://www.
climatebonds.net/standard/available 
Resources for Standard users: https://www.climatebonds.net/certification
Contact email for Certification Team: certification@climatebonds.net
Climate Bonds Initiative New Standard v4.1  Disclaimer 
Disclaimer: The information contained in this document does not constitute investment advice in any form or any invitation or 
inducement to engage in investment activity and the Climate Bonds Initiative is not an investment adviser. Any reference to a 
financial organisation or debt instrument or investment product is for information purposes only. Links to external websites are 
for information purposes only. The Climate Bonds Initiative accepts no responsibility for any content on any external website. 
Certification under the Climate Bonds Standard relates exclusively to the conformity of one or more designated debt instruments, 
designated assets and/or designated entities with the applicable Climate Bonds Standard at the time of certification. Certification 
under the Climate Bonds Standard carries no implication (and should not be understood as carrying any implication) as to any 
other aspect of any debt instrument or investment product or any collection of debt instruments or investment products or any 
asset or entity or group of assets or entities or as to continuing conformity at any time after the time of certification.  In particular, 
such certification carries no implication (and should not be understood as carrying any implication) that any stated target  has 
been or will at any time be met or that any particular legal or regulatory requirement has been or will be satisfied.
The Climate Bonds Initiative is not endorsing, recommending or advising on the financial merits or (subject to the previous 
paragraph) any other aspect of any debt instrument or investment product or any collection of debt instruments or investment 
products or any asset or entity or group of assets or entities and no information within this document should be taken as such, 
nor should any information in this document be relied upon in making any investment decision. 
A decision to invest in anything is solely yours. The Climate Bonds Initiative accepts no liability of any kind, for any investment 
made by an individual or organisation, nor for any investment made by third parties on behalf of an individual or organisation, 
based in whole or in part on any information contained within this, or any other Climate Bonds Initiative document.

Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 4
Contents
1. Terminology    6 
2. Overview of Use of Proceeds  
    and asset Certification    10 
3. Overview of Entity  
    and SLD Certification    13 
4. Approved Verifiers    14
4.1 Professional qualifications  
    and competence    14
4.2. Special Provisions relating  
    to Regulated Entities    14 
4.3 Verification Report Requirements    14
4.4 Disclosure only on authorization  
    of the receiver of the certification    15
PART A:  
USE OF PROCEEDS CERTIFICATION    16
A.1. Introduction    16 
A.2. Pre-Issuance requirements    16
A.2.1. Utilisation of Proceeds    16
A.2.2. Process for Evaluation and 
    Selection of projects and assets    17
A.2.3. Management of Proceeds    17
A.2.4. Pre-Issuance Reporting: Green 
    Finance Framework and Disclosure 
        Documentation    17
A.3. Post-Issuance requirements    19
A.3.1 Use of Proceeds    19
A.3.2 Process for Evaluation and 
    Selection of projects and assets    20
A.3.3 Management of Proceeds    21
A.3.4 Post-Issuance Reporting    21
A.4. Certification Process for  
     Use of Proceeds Instruments    23
A.4.1 Process outline    23
A.4.2 Pre-issuance Certification    24
A.4.3 Post-Issuance Certification    25
A.4.4 Programmatic Certification    25
A.4.5 Validity of Certification  
    Label/Mark    27
A.4.6 Maintaining Certification    27
A.4.7 Revocation of Certification    27
PART B.  
ASSET CERTIFICATION    29
B.1. Eligibility requirements    29
B.2. Process outline    29
B.3. Static or Dynamic 
    asset Certification    29
B.4. Validity of Certification Label/Mark    30
B.4.1 One-off asset Certification    30
B.4.2 Programmatic asset Certification    30
B.5 Revoking Certification    30
PART C:  
ENTITY CERTIFICATION    31
C.1. Introduction    31
C.2. Eligibility and Accounting Rules    35
C.2.1. Applicant control over  
    the Certified Entity    35
C.2.2. Boundary of the Certified Entity    35
C.2.3. Obtaining Entity Certification    35
C.2.4. Maintaining Entity Certification    36
C.3. Transition Plan for  
     Compliant Activities    38
C.3.1. Climate Performance    38
C.3.1.1. Climate Mitigation  
    Performance Targets    38
C.3.1.2. Climate Adaptation  
    & Resilience Performance    39
C.3.2. Delivery Strategy    39
C.3.2.1. Board approval of the  
    Delivery Strategy    39
C.3.2.2. Foundations    39
C.3.2.3. Implementation plans    39
C.3.3. Governance    40
C.3.3.1. Board and senior executive  
    responsibility    40
C.3.3.2. (Re)setting and monitoring  
    the Climate Mitigation Performance  
        Targets and Delivery Strategy    41
C.3.3.3. Correction of 
    underperformance    41
C.4. Commitments of the  
    Parent Group    41
C.4.1. Exclusions    41
C.4.1.1. Expansion of fossil  
    fuel activities    41
C.4.1.2. Conversion of  
    high-carbon-stock land    41
C.4.2. Net zero commitment    41
C.4.3. Transition Plans    42
C.5. Disclosure    42
C.5.1. Information to disclose    42
C.5.2. Format of disclosure    42
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 5
C.6. Extending entity certification to 
    linked financial instruments    50
C.6.1. Extending entity certification to  
    financial instruments linked to the 
        Climate Mitigation Performance 
            Targets and Delivery Strategy    50
C.6.2. Extending entity certification  
    to general purpose debt    50
C.6.3. Revocation of linked certification    50
PART D:  
SUSTAINABILITY-LINKED DEBT    51
D.1. Introduction    51
D.2. Eligibility and accounting rules    55
D.2.1. Issuer control    55
D.2.2. Boundary of economic activities    55
D.2.3. Obtaining SLD Certification    55
D.2.4. Maintaining SLD certification    56
D.3. Transition Plan linked  
to the SLD instrument    58
D.3.1. Climate Performance    58
D.3.1.1. Climate Mitigation  
    Performance Targets    58
D.3.1.2. Climate Adaptation & 
    Resilience Performance    59
D.3.2. Delivery Strategy    59
D.3.2.1. Board approval of  
    the Delivery Strategy    59
D.3.2.2. Foundations    59
D.3.2.3. Implementation plans    59
D.3.3. Governance    60
D.3.3.1. Board and senior  
    executive responsibility    60
D.3.3.2. (Re)setting and monitoring 
    the Climate Mitigation Performance 
        Targets and Delivery Strategy    61
D.3.3.3. Correction of 
    underperformance    61
D.4. Commitments of  
the Parent Group    61
D.4.1. Exclusions    61
D.4.1.1. Expansion of  
    fossil fuel activities    61
D.4.1.2. Conversion of  
    high-carbon-stock land    61
D.4.2. Net zero Commitment    62
D.4.3. Transition Plans    62
D.5. Disclosure    62
D.5.1. Information to disclose    62
D.5.2. Format of disclosure    62
ANNEX 1    70 
Types of Use of Proceeds Instruments that 
can be Certified    70
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 6
1. Terminology
Applicant: A legal Entity applying for Entity Certification or an issuer of a debt instrument 
applying for Use of Proceeds or SLD Certification or an asset owner applying for Asset 
Certification, under the Climate Bonds Standard.
Approved Verifier (Verifier): An independent third-party assurance or external review 
provider approved by the Climate Bonds Standard Board and listed on the Climate Bonds 
Initiative website as an Approved Verifier. Only Approved Verifiers are authorised to issue 
verification opinions in relation to a certification application in accordance with the Climate 
Bonds Standard. The term Approved Verifier in this Standard is understood to include Approved 
External Review Providers.
Certification Agreement: A legal agreement must be executed by the Applicant and 
submitted to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat as part of the Certification Process. 
The Certification Agreement is available from the Climate Bonds website and includes 
terms and conditions for using  the Certification Mark. 
Certified Entity: The entity or part thereof which is being certified under the Climate 
Bonds Standard. Currently, Entity Certification is limited to non-financial Entities or 
segregated segments thereof, for which the Climate Bonds Initiative has Climate Bonds 
Standard Sector Criteria for Entity Certification. 
Certification Mark: The certification logo designates a Certified Climate Debt Instrument, 
Entity or asset that issuers or Applicants may use once they have obtained Certification 
from the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat. The use of the logo is specified within the 
terms and conditions of the Certification Agreement.
Certification Scheme: A scheme developed by Climate Bonds for awarding the Climate 
Bonds Certification label/mark to finance instruments, assets, and entities. The Scheme 
consists of the Climate Bonds Standard and the Sector Criteria.
Certified Debt Instrument Any debt instrument certified by the Climate Bonds Standard 
Secretariat that meets the Climate Bonds Standard requirements. A certified bond or 
certified loan may take the form of one or more tranches of a bond or loan facility.  The 
accredited tranche(s) must be clearly designated in such cases.
Climate Bonds Information Form: A template document to be completed by the Issuer 
and submitted to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat as part of the certification 
process. The Climate Bonds Information Form is available from the Climate Bonds Initiative 
website. The form is used and updated throughout the Certification Process. 
Climate Bonds Initiative (Climate Bonds): Climate Bonds is a company limited 
by guarantee and a charity registered in England. It is an independent not-for-profit 
organisation dedicated to mobilising global capital to deliver climate action.
Climate Bonds Standard (CBS): A robust framework based on international best practice 
in green finance which defines the processes to be followed and Sector Criteria that must 
be met to achieve certification under the Climate Bonds Standard. The current version of 
the Climate Bonds Standard is published on the Climate Bonds website. 
Climate Bonds Standard Board: An advisory committee set up to review the Standard, 
Sector Criteria, applications for certification under the Standard and applications by 
prospective verifiers and to make recommendations to the Trustees and the executive 
management of the Climate Bonds Initiative.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 7
Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat: Consists of the Climate Bonds Certification Team 
and the Climate Bonds Standards Team. The Certification Team manages the day-to-day 
interaction with issuers, verifiers, and other stakeholders. Enquiries can be sent via email 
to certification@climatebonds.net. The Standards Team drives the process for developing 
and maintaining Sector Criteria.
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets: The performance targets that define the 
measurable climate mitigation performance to be achieved. 
Debt Instrument: Any debt instrument being considered for Certification, whether that be 
a bond, a loan, or some other type of debt instrument.
Disclosure Documentation: Documentation associated with the issuance of a bond, 
loan or other debt instrument  is prepared before the bond, loan or other debt instrument 
is issued or entered into and is made available to potential investors. For debt instrument 
issuance, this documentation is usually required by the relevant financial regulatory body 
in the jurisdiction where the bond, loan or other debt instrument is being offered and may 
include items such as a prospectus, term sheet, offering memorandum, indenture contract, 
official debt instrument statement, or legal documentation. In some jurisdictions, this also 
includes marketing materials for the transaction.
Entity: A legal entity, duly incorporated and validly existing in the jurisdiction in which it 
operates, providing non-financial goods and services or a segregated segment thereof.  
It may or may not include other controlled entities (subsidiaries). 
GHG Protocol: The Greenhouse Gas Protocol provides requirements and guidance for 
companies and  organizations preparing a corporate-level GHG emissions inventory. The 
GHG Protocol covers the accounting and reporting of the seven greenhouse gases covered 
by the Kyoto Protocol.
Green Finance Framework: Information provided by the issuer describes how the issuer 
of the relevant bond, loan or other debt instrument, or programme of bonds, loans or other 
debt instruments will meet the requirements in the Climate Bonds Standard.
Green debt instrument: A green debt instrument where the proceeds will be exclusively 
applied to finance or re-finance, in part or complete , new or existing eligible green projects, 
and which align with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles, the Green 
Loan Principles and the Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles.
Issuer: The organisation issuing the bond or other certified debt instrument; or the 
borrower and other obligors taking out the loan or other debt instrument; or the financial 
institution receiving designated deposits. The Issuer of a UoP Instrument can be a special 
purpose vehicle, a securitisation vehicle, or a trust controlled by the issuing entity.
Investment Exposure: Actual amounts invested/to be invested in eligible projects or assets. 
Key Performance Indicator (KPI): External or internal indicators which are under 
management’s control and are material to an Applicant’s business strategy. 
Market Value: The price at which an asset would change hands between a willing buyer 
and a willing seller, neither being under any compulsion to buy or to sell and both having 
reasonable knowledge of relevant facts. This term is usually defined by convention within 
the relevant jurisdiction. It is sometimes called Fair Market Value, Market Value, or Fair 
Value, depending on the context.  Market Value may be assessed by an independent valuer 
or by using an internal valuation model.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 8
Materiality of Emissions: The Sector Criteria apply materiality thresholds for Scope 1, 2 
and 3 emissions on a sectoral basis.
Net Proceeds: The amount equal to the gross proceeds of the bonds, loans, or other debt 
instruments minus costs directly linked to the issuance, such as legal fees, accountants’ 
fees, and verification fees. In case the debt instrument is a debt facility with a limit (e.g., a 
revolving credit facility), the net proceeds in the context of a UoP certification will be equal 
to the drawn amount of the facility.
Net Zero Targets: Short-, medium- and long-term targets set by an entity that aims to 
reduce its Scope 1, 2 and 3 net greenhouse gas emissions to zero by 2050.
Nominated projects and assets: Eligible projects and assets  associated with the bond, 
loan, or other debt instrument. These projects or physical assets may be existing, under 
construction or yet to be deployed.
Non-Assessed Segment: The part(s) of the Parent Group of the Certified Entity which do 
not form part of the Certified Entity and those that form part of the Certified Entity but do 
not contribute to the Certified Entity meeting the Certification Threshold per Clause C.2.3 
Parent Company/Group: A company is considered a parent company of another entity (a 
subsidiary) if it exercises control over the subsidiary. The terms “control” and “subsidiary” 
have the meaning assigned to them under International Financial Reporting Standard 10 
(IFRS 10). A Parent Group consists of the Parent Company and all the companies that the 
Parent Company exercises control over. Where the Applicant does not belong to a group of 
companies, the term Parent Company in  this Standard applies to the Applicant.
Retroactive Certification: Certification awarded for bonds, loans or other debt 
instruments which have already been issued or closed. 
Safeguards: The exclusions and conditions that the Parent Company and the Parent 
Group must meet in order for the Certified Entity to be eligible for certification.
Sector Criteria (Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria): Sector-specific criteria for 
the eligibility of specific projects, assets, activities and/ or entities under the Climate Bonds 
Standard described in the sector criteria documents. 
Sustainability-Linked Debt (SLD):  Any debt instrument for which the financial and 
structural characteristics can vary depending on whether the issuer achieves predefined 
Sustainability/ ESG objectives. Such objectives are measured through predefined KPIs and 
assessed against predefined performance targets. Proceeds of SLD are intended to be used 
for general purposes.
Transition Finance: Any form of financial support to high-carbon companies intended to 
finance the implementation of their short-, medium- and long-term plans to achieve net zero.
Transition Plans: The delivery strategy and governance implemented / to be 
implemented to achieve the decarbonisation targets represented by the Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets of the Applicant.
Unqualified Opinion: An unqualified assurance or external review opinion by an Approved 
Verifier indicates that the Verification Report has been issued with no reservations regarding 
the adherence of the Applicant (for UoP instruments, assets, SLD or Entity certification) with 
the requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard and Sector Criteria. 
Update Report: A document prepared by the issuer that confirms the ongoing 
conformance of the issuer and the relevant debt instrument, or programme of debt 
instruments with the  post-Issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 9
Use of Proceeds Debt Instruments (UoP Instruments):  The proceeds of UoP 
instruments are allocated to specific projects  or purposes. For  this Standard, UoP 
Instruments are for environmentally beneficial projects, assets, activities, or expenditures.
Verification Engagement: The work conducted by an Approved Verifier commissioned 
by an Applicant for Certification to provide a mandatory Verification Report following  the 
Climate Bonds Standard. 
Verification Report: A report prepared by the Approved Verifier, addressed to the Issuer, 
and provided to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat as part of the Certification Process. 
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 10
2. Overview of Use of Proceeds  
and Asset Certification
2.1 For Use of Proceeds Certifications, the net proceeds of the instrument must be 
allocated to any of the following:
a. Projects and assets that are fully eligible under the relevant Sector Criteria applicable 
at the time of certification, or
b. Projects and assets, up to a maximum of 5% in accordance with paragraph A.3.1.3.,  
which do not fully satisfy the Sector Criteria, but meet the conditions of paragraph A.3.1.5., or
c. Eligible R&D expenses in accordance with paragraph vii below.
Asset Certification requires that all projects, assets and portfolios of assets are fully eligible 
under the relevant Sector Criteria.
Projects and assets are only eligible under the Standard if all applicable regulatory permits 
and licences have been obtained and all related legal requirements and obligations in the 
jurisdiction where the Issuer/Entity/owner operates have been satisfied. 
2.2 Projects or assets which satisfy the eligibility requirements of the Climate Bonds 
Standard consist of one or more of the following:
2.2.1. Physical assets or projects owned by an Issuer or an entity which fully satisfy the 
Sector  Criteria published on the Climate Bonds website. Physical assets or projects include:
a. Physical assets: existing and operational equipment, machinery, infrastructure, 
buildings, or land.
b. Projects: equipment, machinery, infrastructure or buildings in construction, redevelopment 
(upgrades, expansion) and similar asset value creation or enhancement activity.
2.2.2. Debt or other financing arrangements provided by a lending institution to 
finance or facilitate the financing of eligible projects or physical assets, such as corporate 
loans, retail mortgages, project finance, bank guarantees or performance bonds.
2.2.3. Capital expenditure is undertaken to increase the value and/or lifetime of the 
physical assets or projects.
2.2.4. Acquisition costs/purchase price for an entity (company or division) which 
holds physical assets or projects or a share thereof that approximately corresponds to the 
Market Value of the physical asset or projects holdings. 
2.2.5. Leasing structures resulting in right-of-use assets and liabilities and long-term 
leaseholds on land (with duration greater than 12 months), buildings, and infrastructure. 
2.2.6. Subsidies, tax and other incentives, credit schemes and grants, and other similar 
arrangements provided by public entities or agencies, including local and national governments.
2.2.7. Eligible R&D expenditure:
a. Any early or later stage expenditure relating to the research, applied research and 
experimental development of solutions, processes, technologies, business models 
and other products dedicated to the substantial reduction, avoidance or removal of 
GHG emissions for which the ability to substantially reduce, remove or avoid GHG 
emissions has been demonstrated in a relevant environment, corresponding to at least 
Technology Readiness Level (TRL)6.1 
1. In line with Annex G of the General Annexes of HORIZON 2020 WORK PROGRAMME 2016 2017, p.29  
(version of 4.6.2021: https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/wp/2016-2017/annexes/h2020-wp1617-annex-ga_en.pdf).
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 11
b. For the avoidance of doubt, this includes expenditure related to research, applied 
research and experimental development to bring the solution, process, technology, 
business model or other product through TRLs 1-5.  In addition, funds or subsidy 
schemes incentivising early stage R&D (TRL1 to TRL5) may be considered eligible if 
aiming to bring the solution, product or technology to TRL6.
c. Substantial reduction, removal or avoiding GHG emissions requires the R&D to:  
i. Provide research, development or innovation for technologies, products or other 
solutions that enable an economic asset or activity to meet the respective Sector 
Criteria under the Climate Bonds Standard; or 
ii. Aim to bring to market a solution that is expected to have a substantially better 
performance in terms of life-cycle GHG emissions than best commercially available 
technologies based on public or market information or which substantially improves 
their technological and economic feasibility in order to facilitate their scaling up.
d. TRL6 or above must be demonstrated as follows:
i. TRL6 requires that the technology is fine-tuned to a variety of operating 
conditions, the process is reliable and the performances match the expectations, 
interoperability with other connected technologies is demonstrated, the 
manufacturing approach is clearly defined and that all environmental, regulatory 
and socio-economic issues are addressed. 
ii. Where the researched, developed or innovated technology, product or other 
solution is at TRL 6 or 7, life- cycle GHG emissions are evaluated in simplified 
form by the entity carrying out the research. The entity demonstrates one of the 
following, where applicable: (a) a patent not older than 10 years associated with 
the technology, product or other solution, where information on its GHG emission 
reduction potential has been provided; (b) a permit obtained from a competent 
authority for operating the demonstration site associated with the innovative 
technology, product or other solution for the duration of the demonstration project, 
where information on its GHG emission reduction potential has been provided. 
iii. Where the researched, developed or innovated technology, product or other 
solution is at TRL 8 or higher, life- cycle GHG emissions are calculated using 
Recommendation 2013/179/EU or, alternatively, using ISO 14067:2018 or ISO 14064-
1:2018 and are verified by an independent third party.
e. Where the R&D expenditure relates to products, solutions or activities for which 
Climate Bonds has not yet developed Sector Criteria, the eligibility will be individually 
assessed on a case-by-case basis. In making such assessments Climate Bonds may rely 
on independent expert reports or opinions. 
f. R&D expenditure must be continually assessed by the Issuer to ensure that the 
relevant climate-related goals are being achieved. The results of the assessment must 
be disclosed in the annual Update Report in accordance with paragraph A.3.4.
g. All R&D expenditure must be independently verified by a Climate Bonds Approved 
Verifier at least on an annual basis until the related technology reaches TRL6 or higher.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 12
2.2.8. Related and supporting expenditures for projects or physical assets where the 
projects or physical assets meet the relevant Sector Criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Such non-capitalised costs may include: 
a. Relevant installation and routine servicing costs are required to ensure the proper 
functioning of the asset.
b. Repair and maintenance costs, upgrades or renovations undertaken to maintain the 
value or extend the asset’s life.
c. Relevant performance monitoring costs concerning tracking climate credentials (e.g., GHG 
emissions) and climate information services (e.g., satellite monitoring and emissions testing)
d. Any training and education costs directly related to activities a. to c. above.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 13
3. Overview of Entity and SLD Certification
The Standard provides transparent science-based climate mitigation Sector Criteria for 
certifying non-financial corporate entities (and parts thereof) and SLD issued by them. 
This includes corporates whose emissions are already near zero and those that are not but 
undergoing an ambitious and credible transition.
The Certification rules for entities and SLD aim to address the concerns of issuers and 
investors on the burden of due diligence and reporting requirements, respectively, 
while maintaining robustness and credibility. They build on existing frameworks 
and methodologies. They also emphasise the need for ambitious Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets in line with Paris-aligned climate mitigation goals, credible transition 
plans which give confidence in the entity’s ability to meet those targets, and disclosure and 
verification to enable oversight by investors and other stakeholders. 
The Certification rules are based on the five Hallmarks of a credibly transitioning company 
first developed by Climate Bonds in 2020 (the “Hallmarks”). The Hallmarks provide an 
assessment framework to support a company transition that is sufficiently rapid and robust 
to align with the Paris goal to nearly halve emissions by 2030 and reach net zero by 2050. 
Specifically, the Hallmarks are: 
i. Paris-aligned targets 
ii. Robust plans
iii. Implementation action
iv. Internal monitoring 
v. External reporting  
The Hallmarks and these Certification rules move away from relative measures such as best 
in class, sector benchmarking or improvements compared to a historic baseline to more 
absolute measures tied to transition pathways that are common to all sector participants. 
They require material scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions to be addressed and short-, medium- and 
long-term targets to be set and supported by robust transition plans. 
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 14
4. Approved Verifiers 
4.1 Professional qualifications and competence
Approved Verifiers are professional firms that follow best practice guidelines concerning 
ethics, independence, management of conflicts of interest, competence, documentation, and 
quality controls. Members of the verification teams must have appropriate qualifications and 
professional experience to enable them to conduct their work to a high standard as well as 
proven competencies in both financial and environmental/technical fields.
Approved Verifiers must conduct the verification engagements in accordance with 
ISAE3000 or an equivalent international standard or an equivalent assessment framework, 
and must adhere to all applicable legal requirements. Verification Engagements should 
also adhere to the ICMA Guidelines for Green, Social and Sustainability Bonds External 
Reviews (June 2022) and the LMA Guidance for Green, Social and Sustainability-Linked 
Loans External Reviews (March 2022).
4.2 Special Provisions relating to Regulated Entities
Certain types of regulated entities, such as credit rating agencies or other regulated 
organisations which provide external review services, may apply to become Approved External 
Review Providers, provided they are subject to publicly disclosed regulatory frameworks and 
otherwise meet the professional competence requirements of the Standard. Such firms may 
opt to issue External Review Reports in accordance with their internal processes and procedures 
which will have been assessed by the Climate Bonds Initiative and the Climate Bonds Standard 
Board as equivalent to internationally accepted assurance standards. 
Firms applying for the Approved External Review Provider status must submit sufficient 
documentation on their internal processes and procedures to the Climate Bonds Standard 
Board via the Climate Bonds Secretariat to enable this assessment to be made. 
In the context of the Standard, the term Approved Verifier will be understood to include 
Approved External Review Provider and the term Verification Report will be understood to 
include an External Review Report issued by an External Review Provider.
Existing Climate Bonds Approved Verifiers who meet the relevant criteria may apply to 
change their status to Approved External Review Provider.
4.3 Verification Report Requirements 
Verification reports must either include an assurance opinion or an external review opinion 
regarding the compliance of the debt instrument/asset/entity with the provisions of 
the Climate Bonds Standard.  Assurance opinions must additionally specify the level of 
assurance entailed in the report. 
The Applicant must provide all the necessary information about the eligible projects and 
assets and the internal processes they have in place to the Approved Verifier to support 
the assessment of conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard. For Entity and SLB 
certifications, the Applicant must provide the Verifier with Transition Plans and other 
supporting documents.
Approved Verifiers conduct the Verification Engagement and prepare the Verification 
Reports per the guidance for Approved Verifiers provided on the Climate Bonds Initiative 
website. The subject matter considered by the Approved Verifiers must include a summary 
of how the Issuer has conformed with the requirements set out in the Standard, including 
the relevant Sector Criteria. 
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 15
4.4 Disclosure only on authorization of the receiver  
of the certification
Verification Reports submitted to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat may be publicly 
disclosed only upon the authorization of the Issuer unless the Climate Bonds Standard 
Secretariat is required by law or national regulators to make such disclosure. The Climate 
Bonds Standard Secretariat must consult with the Applicant and Approved Verifier on the 
presentation of the information prior to any public release of any Verification Report.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 16
PART A: USE OF PROCEEDS 
CERTIFICATION
A.1. Introduction
The requirements for Use of Proceeds certification are separated into Pre-Issuance and 
Post-Issuance requirements. The Climate Bonds Standard and Certification Scheme build 
on the broad integrity principles contained in the ICMA Green Bond Principles.
The Pre-Issuance requirements must be met by Issuers seeking Certification prior 
to issuance. Post-Issuance requirements must be met by Issuers seeking continued 
Certification following issuance of the bond, loan, or other debt instrument. Issuers can 
also apply for Retroactive Certification at any time while the debt instrument is outstanding.
Programmatic Certification is available for frequent Issuers of Certified Debt Instruments. 
This option increases  flexibility and reduces the verification burden for Issuers with large-
scale or longer-term finance programmes.
Verification by an Approved Verifier is mandatory in the Certification process. Ongoing 
Certification includes requirements for annual reporting through public disclosure.
A.2. Pre-Issuance requirements
This section sets out the requirements that apply to all Certified debt Instruments before 
issuing the bond or closing the loan. These requirements are designed to ensure that:
i. The Issuer has established appropriate internal processes and controls prior to 
issuance or closing of the bond, loan, or other debt instrument; 
ii. These internal processes and controls are sufficient to enable conformance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard after the bond, loan, or other debt instrument has been issued 
or has closed and allocation of the proceeds is underway; 
iii. The Issuer has provided a Green Finance Framework document which explains how 
each of the stages involved in issuing a green debt instrument is  satisfied (Use of Proceeds, 
Process for Project Evaluation and Selection, Management of Proceeds, Reporting)
For Issuers seeking Pre-Issuance Certification of their bond, loan or other debt instrument, 
all requirements set out in this section must be met.
A.2.1. Utilisation of Proceeds
A.2.1.1. The Issuer must document the Nominated projects and assets which are eligible 
to be associated with the debt instrument. The Issuer must compile a list of Nominated 
projects and assets which must be kept up to date during the term of the Bond.
A.2.1.2. The expected Net Proceeds of the debt instrument must be no greater than the 
Issuer’s total Investment Exposure to the proposed Nominated projects and assets or 
the relevant proportion of the total Market Value of the proposed Nominated projects 
and assets  owned or funded by the Issuer.
A.2.1.3. Nominated projects and assets must not be nominated to other Certified debt 
Instruments, unless the Issuer demonstrates that distinct portions of the Nominated 
projects and assets are being funded by different Certified debt Instruments or, the existing 
Certified debt Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified debt Instrument.
A

Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 17
A A.2.2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of projects and assets
A.2.2.1. The Issuer must establish, document, and maintain a decision-making process 
which it uses to determine the eligibility of the Nominated projects and assets. 
A.2.2.2. The decision-making process must include, without limitation:
i. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the debt instrument.
ii. How the climate-related objectives of the debt instrument are positioned within 
the context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes 
relating to environmental sustainability.
iii. The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond.
iv. A process to determine whether the Nominated projects and assets meet the 
eligibility requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard.
v. Related Sector Criteria, including any exclusion criteria and any other process, 
applied to identify and manage potentially material environmental or governance 
risks associated with the Nominated projects and assets.
vi. Any green standards or certifications referenced in the selection of Nominated 
projects and assets.
A.2.3. Management of Proceeds
A.2.3.1. The Issuer must document and disclose to the Approved Verifier the systems, 
policies, and processes they will use to manage the Net Proceeds. These must include 
arrangements for the following activities:
a. Tracking of proceeds: The Net Proceeds of the debt instrument can be credited 
to a sub-account, moved to a sub-portfolio, or otherwise tracked by the Issuer in an 
appropriate manner and documented.
b. Managing unallocated proceeds: The balance of unallocated Net Proceeds can be 
managed as per the requirements in Clause A.3.3.3.
c. Earmarking funds to Nominated projects and assets: An earmarking process  
can be used to manage and account for funding to the Nominated projects and 
assets and enables estimation of the share of the Net Proceeds being used for 
financing and refinancing. 
A.2.3.2. Where the prospectus requires the proceeds to be ring-fenced, they must be 
credited to designated bank accounts that can only fund  the specified Nominated 
projects and assets. The Issuer must track and monitor all payments from the 
designated bank accounts.
A.2.4. Pre-Issuance Reporting: Green Finance Framework and 
Disclosure Documentation
A.2.4.1. The Issuer must prepare a Green Finance Framework and make it publicly 
available prior to, or at the time of, issuance. The Green Finance Framework must be 
provided to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat as one of the certification documents.
A.2.4.2. The Green Finance Framework must include:
i. A statement of compliance with the Climate Bonds Standard and/or other 
applicable standards such as the Green Bond Principles or the United Nations 
Sustainability Development Goals.
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 18
ii. A summary of the expected use of proceeds 
iii. A description of the decision-making process for project selection
iv. A description of the Issuer’s processes for managing the proceeds
v. A description of the Issuer’s processes for reporting and external review or verification
A.2.4.3. The Green Finance Framework should also include, without limitation:
i. Information on the methodology and assumptions to be used for confirming that 
the characteristics or performance of the Nominated projects and assets conform to 
the relevant Sector Criteria, where required, and any other additional impact metrics 
that the Issuer will define.
ii. A summary of the approach to manage unallocated Net Proceeds in accordance 
with Clause A.3.3.3.
iii. The intended approach to provide Update Reports to reaffirm conformance with 
the Climate Bonds Standard while the debt instrument remains outstanding.
iv. The list of proposed Nominated projects and assets associated with the debt 
instruments and the investment areas into which the Nominated projects and 
assets fall. Where there are limits on the detail that can be made publicly available 
about specific Nominated projects and assets, information disclosed must include 
the investment areas into which the Nominated projects and assets fall and an 
explanation of why detail on Nominated projects and assets is limited.
v. Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used for refinancing, an estimate 
of the respective shares of the Net Proceeds used for financing and refinancing, 
and the relevant Nominated projects and assets or investment areas which may 
be refinanced. This may also include the expected look-back period for refinanced 
Nominated projects and assets.
A.2.4.4. Issuers are encouraged to disclose as much information as possible with 
respect to Nominated projects and assets. However, in many cases it is not possible 
for the Issuer to disclose detailed information about specific projects and assets 
prior to the issuance of the Bond. This limitation may be due to confidentiality 
arrangements with owners of projects and assets, the dynamic nature of the project 
portfolio, competitive considerations, or other legal provisions which limit the 
disclosure of detailed information.
A.2.4.5. The Issuer must include in its Disclosure Documentation:
i. The investment areas into which the Nominated projects and assets fall.
ii. The intended types of temporary investment instruments for the management of 
unallocated Net Proceeds in accordance with Clause A.3.3.3.
iii. The Approved Verifier engaged by the Issuer for the mandatory  
Verification Engagements.
iv. The intended approach to provide Update Reports to reaffirm conformance 
with the Climate Bonds Standard while the debt instrument remains outstanding, 
including the location of the published documents.
v. The Climate Bonds Initiative Disclaimer provided in the Certification Agreement.
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 19
A.3. Post-Issuance requirements
This Section sets out the requirements for  all Certified debt Instruments after  issuance or 
closing which must be met by Issuers seeking Post-Issuance or Retroactive Certification.
A.3.1. Use of Proceeds
A.3.1.1. The Net Proceeds of the debt instrument must be allocated to the Nominated 
projects and assets.
A.3.1.2. All Nominated projects and assets must meet the documented objectives of 
the debt instrument as set out in the Issuer’s Green Finance Framework. 
A.3.1.3. Issuers must allocate at least 95% of the net proceeds of the debt instrument to 
projects and assets that meet the Sector Criteria requirements of the Standard.
A.3.1.4. For any part of the net proceeds that finance projects and assets that do not 
fully satisfy the Sector Criteria requirements (up to 5%), the Issuer must provide detailed 
disclosures in the Green Finance Framework.  
A.3.1.5. Any Nominated Projects and Assets which do not fully satisfy the Sector Criteria 
may be considered eligible if they meet all of the following conditions:
i. They must relate to sectors for which Climate Bonds has not yet developed  
Sector Criteria; and
ii. They must fall under any of the Green Project categories listed in the ICMA Green 
Bond Principles or the ICMA Social Bond Principles; and
iii. The Verification Report opinion must confirm their alignment with the ICMA 
Green/Social Bond principles
iv. They must not relate to any of the following excluded activities:
• The exploration, extraction or transportation of proven conventional or 
unconventional fossil fuel reserves.
• Natural gas production.
• Refining crude oil to produce derivative products.
• The supply and/or use of fossil fuels for power generation and heat.
• Conversion or fragmentation of high-carbon-stock land or unsustainable 
operations on high-carbon stock land leading to the loss of its status as high-
carbon stock land.
A.3.1.6. The Issuer must allocate the Net Proceeds to the Nominated projects and 
assets within 24 months of issuance of the debt instrument. The 24-month deadline 
can be extended by the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat for up to 5 years (and 
exceptionally up to 10 years if duly justified by the nature of the projects to be financed). 
An extension will be granted at the discretion of the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat, 
provided the justification for it can be substantiated by the Issuer and confirmed by the 
Approved Verifier. At the end of the allocation period specified in the Certification, the 
Issuer must provide a Post-Issuance Verification Report by an Approved Verifier. The 
Issuer may be requested to provide annual Post-Issuance Verification Reports until the 
Approved Verifier confirms that 100% of the proceeds have been allocated. 
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 20
A.3.1.7. Net proceeds may be reallocated to other Nominated projects and assets at 
any time while the debt instrument remains outstanding, provided the Approved Verifier 
has verified such assets. 
A.3.1.8. Nominated projects and assets must not be nominated to other Certified debt 
Instruments, unless the Issuer demonstrates that different Certified Climate Bonds are 
funding distinct portions of the Nominated projects and assets, or the Certified debt 
Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified debt Instrument.
A.3.1.9. Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds of the debt instrument are used for 
refinancing, the Issuer must track the respective shares of the Net Proceeds used for 
financing and refinancing and identify which Nominated projects and assets may 
be refinanced. This may also include the expected look-back period for refinanced 
Nominated projects and assets which should reflect the functional lifetime of the 
projects or assets for delivering the stated climate mitigation/ adaptation/ resilience 
benefits. The remaining functional lifetime of the financed physical projects or assets 
must be equal to or greater than the term of the instrument being certified. The Net 
Proceeds may only be used for refinancing operating expenditures that were incurred 
within three years prior to the issuance of the Certified Debt Instrument.
A.3.1.10. The Issuer must track the Net Proceeds of the debt instrument following a 
formal internal process which is documented in accordance with Clause A.3.3.
A.3.1.11. The Net Proceeds of the debt instrument must be no greater than the Issuer’s 
total Investment Exposure or debt obligation to the Nominated projects and assets or 
the relevant proportion of the total Market Value of the Nominated projects and assets 
which are owned or financed by the Issuer. When satisfying this clause, the Issuer may 
choose either (i) the Investment Exposure or debt obligation to the Nominated projects 
and assets, or (ii) their Market Value. 
A.3.1.12. Additional Nominated projects and assets may be added to, or used to substitute 
or replenish, the portfolio of Nominated projects and assets as long as the additional 
Nominated projects and assets are eligible under the Standard and are consistent with 
the debt instrument’s objectives. Where additional Nominated projects and assets are 
covered by Sector Criteria which were not included in the scope of either the Pre-Issuance 
Verification or the Post-Issuance Verification Engagements, the Issuer must engage an 
Approved Verifier to provide a Verification Report covering at least the conformance of the 
additional Nominated projects and assets with the relevant Sector Criteria.  
A.3.2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of projects and assets
A.3.2.1. The Issuer must document and maintain a decision-making process to 
determine the continued eligibility of the Nominated projects and assets.  
This includes, without limitation:
i. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond.
ii. How the climate-related objectives of the debt instrument are positioned within 
the context of the Issuer’s overarching goals, strategy, policy and/or processes 
relating to environmental sustainability.
iii. The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the debt instrument.
iv. A process to determine whether the Nominated projects and assets meet the 
sector eligibility requirements specified of the Standard.
v. Other information provided by the Issuer as described in Clause A.2.2.
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 21
A A.3.3 Management of Proceeds
A.3.3.1. The Net Proceeds of the debt instrument must be credited to a sub-account, 
moved to a sub-portfolio, or otherwise identified by the Issuer in an appropriate 
manner and documented.
A.3.3.2. The debt instrument Issuer must either maintain an earmarking process or 
ring-fence the proceeds per Clause A.2.3 to manage and account for the allocation of 
Net Proceeds to the Nominated projects and assets. 
A.3.3.3. While the debt instrument remains outstanding, the balance of the tracked Net 
Proceeds must be reduced by amounts allocated to Nominated projects and assets. 
Pending such allocations to Nominated projects and assets, the balance of unallocated 
Net Proceeds must be:
i. Held in temporary investment instruments that are cash, money-market 
instruments or other liquid, short-term cash equivalent instruments within a treasury 
function; and/or
ii. Held in temporary investment instruments that do not relate to greenhouse gas 
intensive projects or any projects which are inconsistent with the delivery of a low 
carbon and climate resilient economy; and/or
iii. Applied to temporarily reduce the indebtedness of a revolving nature before being 
redrawn for investments in or disbursements to Nominated projects and assets.
A.3.4. Post-Issuance Reporting 
A.3.4.1. Following the issuance of a Certified UoP instrument, to maintain the 
Certification all Issuers must submit annual Update Reports within 12 to 24 months 
from the date of issuance of the debt instrument until its maturity. Any Post-Issuance 
Verification Report by an Approved Verifier in any year is deemed to satisfy the Issuer’s 
requirement to submit an Update Report for that year.
A.3.4.2. The Issuer should also provide an Update Report on a timely basis in case of 
material developments. Material developments include, but are not limited to, early 
repayment, change of control or acquisition, change of name, changes to the eligibility 
of assets and projects and any material amendments to transaction documents, 
including any winding-up  process or enforcement.
A.3.4.3. Issuers are encouraged to provide their Update Reports through existing bond 
market reporting channels, such as the US Municipality sector’s Electronic Municipal 
Market Access (EMMA) website. 
A.3.4.4. An Update Report may contain three types of reporting: allocation reporting, 
eligibility reporting, and impact reporting:
i. Allocation reporting confirms the allocation of bond proceeds to eligible projects 
and assets and is mandatory for all Certified debt instruments.
ii. Eligibility reporting confirms the characteristics or performance of projects and 
assets to demonstrate their eligibility under the relevant Sector Criteria and is 
mandatory for all Certified debt instruments.
iii. Impact reporting discloses the metrics or indicators which reflect the  
expected or actual impact of eligible projects and assets and is encouraged for  
all Certified debt instruments.
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 22
A.3.4.5. The three different types of reporting can be included in a single Update 
Report, which must be provided to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat and made 
publicly available or provided annually to the bondholders/lenders for as long as the 
debt instrument remains outstanding. 
A.3.4.6. The timing of reporting under this clause can be aligned with the Issuer’s 
regular reporting schedule and does not need to follow the anniversary of the 
Certification or issuance of the Bond.
A.3.4.7. The Allocation Reporting must include, without limitation:
i. Confirmation that the Bonds issued under the Issuer’s Green Finance Framework 
are aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard. 
ii. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond.
iii. The list of Nominated projects and assets to which Net Proceeds have been 
allocated (or re-allocated).
iv. The amounts allocated to the Nominated projects and assets.
v. An estimate of the respective shares of the Net Proceeds used for financing 
and refinancing and which Nominated projects and assets have been refinanced. 
This may also include the expected look-back period for refinancing Nominated 
projects and assets.
vi. The geographical distribution of the Nominated projects and assets.
A.3.4.8. The Eligibility Reporting must include, without limitation:
i. Confirmation that the Nominated projects and assets continue to meet the 
relevant eligibility requirements applicable when obtaining the Certification.
ii. Information on the environmental characteristics or performance of Nominated 
projects and assets, which is prescribed by the relevant Sector Criteria.
ii. Where the issuer has made use of the 5% flexibility pocket in accordance with paragraph 
A.3.1.3, the percentage of the use of proceeds allocated to, and detailed description of, the 
Nominated projects and assets which do not fully satisfy the Sector Criteria.
A.3.4.9. Some Bonds have a very stable allocation of proceeds and do not need to track 
any performance indicators to maintain the eligibility of the projects and assets (such 
as financing for a single large-scale solar facility). This means that the annual Update 
Report can be concise and restate the information from previous reports.
A.3.4.10. Where there are limits on the detail that can be made available in the Update 
Report about specific Nominated projects and assets (as per Clause A.2.4.3), information 
disclosed must include the investment areas into which the Nominated projects and 
assets fall and an explanation of why detail on Nominated projects and assets is limited.
A.3.4.11. The impact reporting shall, without limitation:
i. Provide the expected or actual outcomes or impacts of the Nominated projects 
and assets concerning the climate-related objectives of the Bond.
ii. Use qualitative performance indicators and, where feasible, quantitative 
performance measures of the outcomes or impacts of the Nominated projects and 
assets for the climate-related objectives of the Bond.
iii. Provide the methods and the key underlying assumptions for the calculation of 
the performance indicators and metrics.
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 23
A A.3.4.12. Examples of quantitative performance measures of the outcomes of Nominated 
projects and assets can include but are not limited to: renewable energy capacity installed, 
greenhouse gas emissions avoided, emissions intensity, energy performance of buildings, 
number of passengers carried by public transport, volume of wastewater treated. Impact 
metrics and indicators can include but are not limited to: greenhouse gas emissions 
reduced/avoided, the number of households provided with access to clean power, a 
decrease in water use, a reduction in the number of cars required.
A.3.4.13. Methods include, but are not limited to, the framework used and the 
calculation methodology, including annualized metrics and/or lifetime calculations. 
Both institutional and proprietary frameworks may be used: institutional frameworks 
may be referenced by name, but proprietary and new frameworks should be described 
in sufficient detail to allow assessment.
A.3.4.14. The Issuer must make available to the public or to the bondholders any 
Verification Reports or other relevant material which supports the Update Report.
A.4. Certification Process for Use of Proceeds Instruments
A.4.1. Process outline
A.4.1.1. The Certification Process consists of three distinct phases that align with the 
standard process for issuing and maintaining any debt instrument. This alignment 
enables the use of the Certification Mark during the pricing and marketing of the debt 
instrument and during the negotiation of the loan or other debt instrument. Furthermore, 
it guarantees that the integrity of the Certification Mark is preserved even after the bond or 
loan has been issued or closed and the net proceeds have been allocated.
A.4.1.2. Pre-Issuance Certification: Assessment and Certification of the Issuer’s 
internal processes, including its selection process for projects and assets; internal 
tracking of proceeds, and the allocation system for net proceeds. This phase includes 
the Issuer preparing a Green Finance Framework and a list of eligible projects and 
assets; verification of the framework and the list by an Approved Verifier; production 
of a Verification Report; and provision of certification documents to the Climate 
Bonds Standard Secretariat. Pre-Issuance Certification of bonds, loans or other debt 
instruments is awarded via a formal letter and a Certificate from the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat. The Pre-Issuance Certification covers the period prior to the 
issuance or closing of the debt instrument. It can assist with marketing  the transaction, 
provided this period does not exceed 12 months. Pre-Issuance Certification is valid until 
Post-Issuance Certification is awarded.
A.4.1.3. Post-Issuance Certification: Assessment and Certification of the bond, loan, 
or other debt instrument after it has been issued or has closed. If the bond, loan or other 
debt instrument has been awarded Pre-Issuance Certification, then the Post-Issuance 
Certification must be undertaken within the specified allocation period as specified in 
Clause A.3.1.3. This phase includes preparation of Post-Issuance updates; verification 
of the information by an Approved Verifier; production of a Verification Report; and 
provision of certification documents to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat. Post-
Issuance Certification of individual debt instruments is confirmed via a formal letter 
from the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat. 
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 24
A.4.1.4. Ongoing Certification: Maintenance of the Certification based on ongoing 
conformance with the Post-Issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard, 
including meeting the annual reporting requirements specified in Clause A.3.4. 
Maintenance requirements are detailed in Clause A.4.6.  Non-conformance provisions 
are described in Clause A.4.7.
A.4.1.5. Programmatic Certification is also available for Issuers with large portfolios 
of eligible projects, assets, and programmes of multiple Certified deals over several 
years. Issuers using Programmatic Certification have a reduced verification burden.  
Annual verification by an Approved Verifier is mandatory under Programmatic 
Certification. This option is described in detail in Clause A.4.4.
A.4.2. Pre-issuance Certification
A.4.2.1. Preparation for Certification: Issuers seeking Certification and the use of the 
Certification Mark for a debt instrument prior to issuance shall:
i. Prepare a Green Finance Framework (or equivalent document) which describes 
how each of the requirements in the Climate Bonds Standard will be met by the 
Issuer for the relevant debt instrument issuance or programme. 
ii. Complete the Climate Bonds Information Form and submit the completed form 
to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat. The Issuer must identify within the 
Climate Bonds Information Form which components of the information provided are 
confidential and which components can be publicly disclosed on the Climate Bonds 
Initiative website once Certification has been confirmed and issuance of the debt 
instrument has been completed. The Issuer may submit a preliminary Climate Bonds 
Information Form to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat in the case where 
certain information on the debt instrument is unknown at the Pre-Issuance stage. 
iii. Engage an Approved Verifier to undertake the Verification Engagement to 
assess conformance with the Pre-Issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds 
Standard. The Approved Verifier engaged by the Issuer must issue a verification  
report expressing an unqualified opinion as to whether the Issuer and the 
proposed debt instrument have conformed to the Pre-Issuance requirements  
of the Climate Bonds Standard.
A.4.2.2. Obtaining Pre-Issuance Certification
i. An Issuer that has completed the Pre-Issuance preparatory steps in Clause A.4.2.1 
may apply to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat to receive Certification of the 
debt instrument under the Climate Bonds Standard by submitting the following 
documents: (i) a completed Climate Bonds Information Form (ii) the Green Finance 
Framework (or equivalent summary) (iii) the Pre-Issuance Verification Report, and (iv) 
an executed Certification Agreement. These documents must be submitted to the 
Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat via email (certification@climatebonds.net).
ii. If the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat is satisfied that the Issuer and proposed 
debt instrument are in conformance with the Pre-Issuance requirements, then it shall 
provide a statement to the Issuer confirming the Certification of the debt instrument 
under the Climate Bonds Standard. Thereafter, the Issuer has the right (subject to the 
Certification Agreement) to use the Certification Mark in association with the relevant 
debt instrument until the Post- Issuance Certification is confirmed.
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 25
A A.4.3 Post-Issuance Certification
A.4.3.1. Preparation for Post-Issuance Certification: Issuers seeking Certification 
and the use of the Certification Mark after issuance of the debt instrument shall:
i. If Pre-Issuance Certification has previously been confirmed for the Bond, update 
the Green Finance Framework and Climate Bonds Information Form to reflect any 
relevant changes or clarifications to this information after issuance of the Bond.
ii. If Pre-Issuance Certification has not previously been obtained, prepare a Green 
Finance Framework and other documents as described in Clauses A.2.4 and A.4.2.1.
iii. Prepare information and evidence to support the Bond’s ongoing conformance 
with the Post-Issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard, including any 
ongoing requirements in the relevant Sector Criteria.
iv. Engage an Approved Verifier to undertake a Verification Engagement after issuing 
the debt instrument. If Pre-Issuance Certification has previously been confirmed, 
then this verification must be completed within two years or other period agreed in 
accordance with paragraph A.3.1.6 of the issuance of the Bond. 
v. The Issuer may engage the same Approved Verifier to undertake both the Pre-Issuance 
and Post-Issuance activities under one commercial arrangement, but this is not mandatory.
A.4.3.2. Obtaining Post-Issuance Certification: If Pre-Issuance Certification has 
previously been confirmed, the Issuer must submit the following documents to the 
Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat:
i. An updated Climate Bonds Information Form,
ii. The Green Finance Framework (or equivalent summary) as updated,
iii. The Verification Report from the Post-Issuance Verification Engagement.
iv. If Pre-Issuance Certification has not been obtained, the Issuer must provide the 
Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat with the documents listed in Clause A.4.2.2. 
A.4.3.3. If, at the time of issuance of the Post-Issuance Verification Report, the proceeds 
have yet to be  fully allocated to the Nominated projects and assets, then the Issuer 
must provide the relevant explanations. In such an event, the Post-Issuance Verification 
process must be repeated at least annually until the proceeds have been fully allocated. 
A.4.3.4. If the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat is satisfied that the Issuer and 
the debt instrument are in conformance with the Post-Issuance requirements of the 
Climate Bonds Standard, then it shall provide a statement to the Issuer confirming 
the Certification of the debt instrument. The Issuer has the right to continue using 
the Certification Mark in association with the relevant debt instrument while the debt 
instrument remains outstanding.
A.4.4. Programmatic Certification
A.4.4.1. Programmatic Certification allows an Issuer with a portfolio of eligible 
projects and assets to issue multiple Certified debt Instruments under the overarching 
certification of the whole programme. Programmatic issuers must have internal 
controls in place to ensure the eligibility of any new assets being financed through 
the certified instruments. Multiple issuances relating to the same project/asset are 
assessed against the version of the Standard and criteria applicable at the outset  
of the programmatic process.
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 26
A.4.4.2. To obtain certification of the Program, the Issuer must submit to the Climate 
Bonds Standard Secretariat:
i. A Pre-Issuance Verification Report on the eligible projects and assets and the 
readiness assessment of the Issuer to comply with the requirements of the Standard
ii. A signed Certification Agreement 
iii. A copy of the Green Finance Framework
A.4.4.3. The Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat will provide the Issuer with formal 
confirmation of Certification of the programme.
A.4.4.4. For every debt instrument issued under the Program, the Issuer must: 
i. Supply the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat with a completed Climate Bonds 
Information Form for the specific debt instrument issued. The Climate Bonds Standard 
Secretariat will provide the Issuer with formal Certificate of the specific instrument.
ii. Following the first issuance under the Program, the Issuer must adopt an annual 
Verification Reporting process per Clause A.3.4.(typically 12-24 months after issuance 
of the first debt instrument under the Program).
iii. At the end of every subsequent reporting year, the Issuer must provide  the 
Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat with an updated report from an Approved 
Verifier to confirm the continuing eligibility of the projects and assets and the 
allocation of the proceeds for all the Certified instruments under the programme. 
iv. Annual Update reports should include Post-Issuance Verification Reports where 
required until all the proceeds of all Certified bonds under the programme have  
been fully allocated. 
v. Once the Post-Issuance certification of all of the instruments in the programme has 
been completed, the Issuer need only provide an annual Update Report per Clause 
A.4.4 until new instruments are issued under the programme, or the programme has 
been completed under  Clause A.4.4.4viii  below.
vi. The subject matter considered by the Approved Verifier must include the Post-
Issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard, including the reporting 
requirements in Clause A.3.4. It must cover all the debt instruments under the Program.
vii. In the event of changes to the Green Finance Framework during the programme, 
the Issuer must supply the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat with the updated 
version of the annual Verification Report.
viii. Any Programmatic Certification programme is considered completed  
at the latest of:
a. Five years from the issuance of the first debt instrument under the programme; and
b. Two years from the most recent debt instrument issuance for which the post 
issuance verification has been completed
A.4.4.5. After completing the Programmatic process, the Issuer is no longer 
required to engage the Approved Verifier annually to conduct verification of the debt 
instrument programme. However, the Issuer must conform with the Update Reporting 
requirements per Clause A.3.4. 
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 27
A A.4.5. Validity of Certification Label/Mark
A.4.5.1. An Issuer must stop using the Certification Mark if any of the following applies:
i. The Issuer no longer wishes to continue with the Certification of the debt 
instrument and provides a written statement to that effect to the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat.
ii. The issuance of the debt instrument is cancelled or suspended. 
iii. The debt instrument is issued more than 12 months after the Pre-Issuance 
Certification is awarded in accordance with Clause A.4.1.2, other than in the context 
of a Programmatic Certification as described in Clause A.4.4 and no extension has 
been granted by the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat.
iv. The Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat becomes aware that the Issuer and/or 
the debt instrument no longer conform with the Climate Bonds Standard.
v. A Verification Engagement commissioned by the Issuer, or the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat finds that the Issuer and/or the debt instrument no longer 
conforms with the Climate Bonds Standard.
vi. Ongoing certification is not met (see Clause A.4.1.4)
vii. Revocation of Certification occurs (see Clause A.4.7)
A.4.6. Maintaining Certification
A.4.6.1. To maintain the Certification status of the debt instrument, the Issuer must 
prepare and make available Update Reports at least annually, for as long as the debt 
instrument remains outstanding per Clause A.3.4. An authorised officer of the Issuer 
must sign the Update Report.  
A.4.6.2. The Issuer must supply the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat with links to 
Update Reports or share their location on a public website (such as EMMA). 
A.4.6.3. The Issuer may engage an Approved Verifier to undertake further Verification 
Engagements on a periodic basis, to confirm that the Issuer has maintained 
conformance with the Post-Issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard.
A.4.6.4. Where Nominated projects and assets are covered by Sector Criteria, which 
require ongoing demonstration of eligibility, the Issuer must include in the Update 
Reports confirmation that Nominated projects and assets continue to meet the relevant 
Criteria, including any relevant metrics or thresholds. 
A.4.7. Revocation of Certification
A.4.7.1. An Issuer using the Certification Mark must provide further information if 
requested by the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat.
A.4.7.2. In case of an alleged breach of conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard, 
the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat may request that a different Approved Verifier 
prepares a new Verification Report as a condition for maintaining Certification under the 
Climate Bonds Standard:
i. This Verification Report must be submitted to the Climate Bonds Standard 
Secretariat for review within three months of the initial request.
ii. The Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat may request no more than one 
Verification Report in any six-month period following Post-Issuance Certification. 
A
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 28
A.4.7.3. Where a Certified debt Instrument is no longer in conformance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard, then the Issuer must disclose that fact to the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat within one month of becoming aware of the non-conformance:
i. The Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat may suggest corrective actions  
to restore conformance  
ii. If conformance is not restored to the satisfaction of the Climate Bonds Standard 
Secretariat,  the Certification of that debt instrument will be revoked.
A.4.7.4. Once Certification of a debt instrument has been revoked by the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat, the Issuer shall:
i. Not use the Certification Mark in association with the debt instrument or imply 
that the Certification is still in place, either directly by the Issuer or indirectly through 
third-party data providers.
ii. Take all necessary steps to remove that debt instrument from relevant lists or 
indices which require Certification; and
iii. Inform the holders of the debt instrument, relevant exchanges, and other 
transaction parties of the change in the Certification status.
A.4.7.5. An Issuer of a debt instrument which has had its Certification revoked by the 
Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat may appeal the decision through the Climate 
Bonds Standard Complaints and Appeals Policy.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 29
PART B. ASSET CERTIFICATION
B.1. Eligibility requirements
B.1.1. The legal owner of any project, asset or portfolio of assets that 
satisfies the Sector Criteria may apply to certify such assets. In an Asset Certification 
process, the assessment involves only the eligibility of a project, asset, or portfolio of assets  
under the Sector Criteria and is not related to the financing of these assets.  The project, 
asset, or portfolio to be Certified must be labelled and described in sufficient detail  
to be clearly identifiable.
B.2. Process outline
B.2.1. Asset owners seeking Certification of their projects, assets or portfolio of assets shall:
i. Engage an Approved Verifier to undertake the Verification Engagement to assess 
conformance with the Sector Criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard. The Approved Verifier 
engaged by the owner must issue a Verification Report expressing an opinion as to whether 
the owner has conformed to the  Climate Bonds Standard Asset Certification requirements. 
ii. The Approved Verifier must confirm that the asset owner has the internal processes 
to ensure that the specific asset/portfolio will remain eligible in the 12-month period 
following the certification.
iii. Complete and submit the Climate Bonds Information Form to the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat. The asset owner must identify within the Climate Bonds 
Information Form which information provided is confidential and which components 
can be publicly disclosed on the Climate Bonds Initiative website once Certification  
has been confirmed. 
B.2.2. An asset owner may apply to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat to receive 
Certification of the project/asset/portfolio of assets under the Climate Bonds Standard by 
submitting the following documents: (i) a completed Climate Bonds Information Form (ii) 
an unqualified Verification Report, and (iii) an executed Certification Agreement. These 
documents must be submitted to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat via email.
B.2.3. If the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat is satisfied that the proposed assets are 
in conformance with the asset Certification Requirements, then it shall provide a statement 
to the asset owner confirming the Certification under the Climate Bonds Standard. 
B.3. Static or Dynamic asset Certification
B.3.1. Static asset Certification refers to a project, asset or portfolio of assets, the 
composition of which does not change over the duration of the certification period (12 
months for a one-off asset Certification). 
B.3.2. Dynamic asset certification refers to a pool of assets into which new assets may 
be added over the duration of certification. In the case of Dynamic Asset Certification, the 
Issuer must adopt a process by which they can evaluate and select the individual assets 
within the green project categories. This process is similar to that adopted by green bond 
Issuers for selecting eligible assets in a Use of Proceeds certification, as described in Clause 
A.2.2. In a dynamic certification process, the Approved Verifier must assess the asset 
owner’s asset selection controls and procedures.
B

Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 30
B.4. Validity of Certification Label/Mark 
B.4.1. One-off asset Certification  
This Certification attaches to specific eligible Projects, Assets or Portfolios of Assets. It will be 
valid for a maximum of 12 months from when the Certification is awarded unless the asset 
owner adopts a Programmatic Asset Certification process as described in Clause B.4.2.
B.4.2. Programmatic Asset Certification
The asset owner may apply for Programmatic Asset Certification by engaging the 
Approved Verifier annually  to confirm the eligibility of the project, asset, or portfolio 
of assets. To maintain certification of the project, asset or portfolio of assets, the asset 
owner must submit a Verification Report to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat 
confirming alignment with the Sector Criteria applicable when the verification work was 
conducted.  If assets relating to new sectors are added to the Certified pool of assets, 
the asset owner must ensure that the description of the expanded asset pool clearly 
describes its composition.
B.5. Revoking Certification
B.5.1. An asset owner using the Certification Mark must provide further information if 
requested by the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat.
B.5.2. In cases of a suspected breach of conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard, 
the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat may request a new Verification Report be prepared 
by a different Approved Verifier as a condition for maintaining Certification under the 
Climate Bonds Standard. 
B.5.3. Where a Certified project, asset or portfolio of assets no longer conforms with the 
Climate Bonds Standard, the asset owner must disclose that fact to the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat within one month of becoming aware of the non-conformance. 
The Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat may suggest corrective actions to restore 
conformance.  If conformance is not restored to the satisfaction of the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat, the Certification of that asset will be revoked.
B.5.4. Once the Certification of an asset has been revoked by the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat, the Owner must not use the Certification Mark or imply that the 
Certification is still in place.
B.5.5. An asset owner which has had its Certification revoked by the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat may appeal against the decision through the Climate Bonds 
Standard Complaints and Appeals Policy.
B
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 31
B PART C: ENTITY CERTIFICATION 
C.1. Introduction
Currently, Entity Certification is limited to non-financial Entities or 
segregated segments thereof, for which the Climate Bonds Initiative has Climate Bonds 
Standard Sector Criteria for Entity Certification.   
These entities, or segments thereof, may have emissions already at or near zero or 
significantly above zero but with Transitions Plans aligned with 1.5C degree pathways.  
Certification is valid for five years from the date of certification, subject to compliance with 
the requirements laid out in this Part C.
Figure C1 summarises the steps to Entity Certification.  Figure C2 illustrates the 
certification requirements for the Compliant Activities of the entity, or segregated segment 
thereof, being Certified. Figure C3 illustrates additional certification requirements relating 
to the remainder of the legal entity not forming part of the Certified Entity (in the case 
of certification of a segment of a legal entity) or to the wider Parent Group of which the 
Certified Entity is a part (if the Certified Entity is part of a Parent Group). 
A Checklist for Certification providing further clarification on the requirements to comply 
with the criteria for Entity Certification is given in the accompanying ‘Entity Certification 
Checklist’ document. That Checklist must be adhered to in conjunction with the 
requirements in this Part C. 
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 32
CFigure C1: Steps to Entity Certification*
Certifiable 
Entity
Compliant Activities 
have ambitious 
Performance 
Targets, supporting 
Transition Plans and 
governance, and 
adequate disclosure 
and verification
Compliant Parent Groups 
meet the Climate Safeguards 
and have adequate 
disclosure and verification
*These are the steps and requirements to obtain certification. The steps and requirements for maintaining certification are different.   
See Clause C.2.4.
Clause 
C.2.1.
Applicant 
has control 
over Certified 
Entity
Clause 
C.2.2.
Eligible 
boundary for 
the Certified 
Entity is set
Clause 
C.2.3.
All confirmed 
by Approved 
VerifierClause 
C.4.,C.5.
Parent Group 
is compliant
Clause 
C.2.3.
Compliant 
activities 
represent 
90% of the 
Certified 
Entity
Clause 
C.3.,C.5.
Each of those 
economic 
activities is 
assessed for 
compliance
Clause 
C.2.3.
Economic 
activities  
of the  
Certified 
Entity are 
disaggregated
Fig. C.2.
Fig. C.3.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 33
C C
C.3.1.  
Climate 
Performance
C.3.2.2.  
Foundation
C.3.3.  
Governance
C.3.2.3.  
Implementa-
tion
C.5.  
Disclosure
Transition Plan Transparency
C.3.1.2. 
Adaptation  
& resilience
C.3.2.2.2. 
Strategic 
narrative
C.3.3.2.   
(Re)setting & 
monitoring 
Targets & 
PlansC.3.2.2.3.  
Environmen-
tal & social 
goal alignment C.3.3.3.   
Correction 
of underper-
formance
C.3.2.3.2. 
Action Plan 
scope 3
C.3.2.3.3. 
Finance Plan
C.3.2.3.4. 
Internal policy 
alignment
C.3.2.3.5. 
Sensitivity 
analysis
C.3.1.1.  
Climate 
mitigation
C.3.2.2.1.  
Vision
C.3.3.1.  
Board & senior  
executive 
responsibility
C.3.2.3.1.  
Action Plan 
scope 1 & 2
C.5.1.  
Information 
to disclose
Figure C2: Requirements for Compliant Activities of the Certified Entity
Performance 
targets
Climate 
performance 
targets to assess 
and monitor 
progress to 1.5 
degree alignment 
Foundation* 
Vision of future 
activities, products, 
services and 
technologies and 
strategic narrative 
on levers and risks 
to get there
Implementation 
plans*
Trackable transition 
roadmap of action 
plans, milestones 
and operating and 
financial metrics 
 
Governance 
Oversight, 
monitoring and 
management of 
progress
Disclosure 
Public information 
for transparency 
and credibility
*Where required for that sector.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 34
Transition Goals Transparency
CFigure C3: Requirements on the Parent Group
Climate 
Performance
Transition strategy Disclosure
C.4.2.  
Net zero commitment
C.4.1.  
Exclusions
C.4.3.  
Transition Plan
C.5.1.  
Information to 
disclose
Climate Performance
Commitments not to 
undertake excluded 
activities and to achieve 
net zero emissions
Transition strategy
Outlines of a Transition 
Plan to achieve that net 
zero target
Disclosure
Information shared 
publicly for credibility
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 35
C C.2. Eligibility and Accounting Rules
C.2.1. Applicant control over the Certified Entity
The Applicant must either be the same legal entity as the Certified Entity or have 
operational control over the Certified Entity.  
C.2.2. Boundary of the Certified Entity
The Certified Entity may be a group of legal entities within a Parent Group, a single legal 
entity or a segregated segment thereof, at the Applicant’s discretion, subject to the 
following conditions:
i. Certification of a Parent Company must include subsidiaries and other controlled 
companies within its boundary. The sole exception is where no Sector Criteria are 
available to assess the activities of any subsidiary or controlled company, in which case 
those subsidiaries or controlled companies must be excluded from the boundary of  
the Certified Entity. 
ii. A segregated segment thereof means a sub-division of a legal entity. This can be 
set as the Certified Entity and Certified in its own right only if no Climate Bonds Sector 
Criteria exist for the other sub-divisions of the legal entity. 
iii. Where an economic activity of the Certified Entity is carried out across multiple 
sub-divisions or subsidiaries or companies controlled by the same legal entity, the 
Applicant must include all such sub-divisions and subsidiaries within the boundary  
of the Certified Entity. 
C.2.3. Obtaining Entity Certification  
The Applicant receives a Verification Report from an Approved Verifier that: 
i. The proportion of the Certified Entity’s economic activities that are counted as 
complying with the Climate Performance, Delivery Strategy, Governance and Disclosure 
requirements in Clauses C.3.1, C.3.2, C.3.3 and C.5, respectively, exceeds 90% of the 
Certified Entity’s total economic activities; and  
ii. The Parent Group meets the Climate Safeguard and Disclosure requirements in 
Clauses C.4 and C.5, respectively.
And the Applicant supplies to the Climate Bonds Standard Board, through the Climate 
Bonds Standard Secretariat, a copy of the Verification Report or shares its location on a 
public website, for the purpose of publishing on the Climate Bonds Initiative website. 
See Box C1 for the application process for obtaining Entity Certification.
A note on terminology: This 90% is defined as the ‘Certification Threshold’ , and economic 
activities which meet the Climate Performance, Delivery Strategy, Governance and Disclosure 
requirements per Clauses C.3.1, C.3.2, C.3.3 and C.5 respectively and hence form part of this 
90% are the ‘Compliant Activities’ .
To assess compliance with this threshold, the economic activities of the Certified Entity  
are disaggregated and weighted according to either their revenue share or share  
of GHG emissions. See the Entity Certification Checklist document for the methodology  
to determine compliance.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 36
Box C1: Application process for Entity Certification 
Applicants seeking Entity Certification must apply by submitting the following 
documents to the Climate Bonds Standard Board Secretariat: 
i. A completed Climate Bonds Information Form; 
ii. The Verification Report from an Approved Verifier that meets the requirements in 
Clause C.2.3.; and 
iii. An executed Certification Agreement. 
If the Climate Bonds Standard Board is satisfied that the Applicant is in conformance 
with the Pre-Issuance requirements, then it will provide a statement confirming the 
Certification of the Certified Entity.
The Applicant must identify within the Climate Bonds Information Form which of the 
information provided are confidential and which can be publicly disclosed on the 
Climate Bonds Initiative website once Certification is confirmed.
C.2.4 Maintaining Entity Certification 
The Applicant receives an annual Verification Report from an Approved Verifier that:  
i.. In respect of the Certified Entity:
i. If at Certification the Certified Entity followed the revenue share basis for 
compliance with the Certification Threshold and subsequently increased the revenue 
of any economic activity of the Certified Entity that did not previous contribute to 
the Certified Entity meeting the Certification Threshold, then the Applicant has re-
assessed its compliance with the Certification Threshold and the Certified Entity still 
meets the Certification Threshold (per Clause C.2.3); and
ii. All interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets (per Clause C.3.1.1) and all 
interim milestones in the Delivery Strategy (per Clauses C.3.2.3.1, C.3.2.3.2 and 
C.3.2.3.3) falling due since the last Verification Engagement have been met. The only 
exception to this may be where compensatory measures have been taken or are 
planned to address underperformance and those measures collectively meet the 
requirements in Clause C.3.3; and 
iii. Any and all correction measures have been taken to address any anticipated 
underperformance in the delivery of the Delivery Strategy and future interim Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets meet the requirements in Clause C.3.3; and  
iv. All disclosure requirements have been met (per Clause C.5); 
and
ii. The Parent Group remains in compliance (per Clauses C.4 and C.5); 
and
iii. The Applicant is not subject to revocation of certification due to any of the events 
detailed in Box C2. 
and 
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 37
C
Box C2: Events leading to the revocation of Entity Certification  
Entity Certification will also be rescinded at any time where:
1. The Applicant becomes aware that the Certified Entity and/ or the Parent Group  
no longer conforms with the Climate Bonds Standard and provides a written  
statement to that effect to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat; or
2. A Verification Engagement commissioned by the Climate Bonds Standard Board, 
finds that the Certified Entity and/ or the Parent Group no longer conforms with the 
Climate Bonds Standard; or
3. The Applicant has breached any contractual obligation towards the  
Climate Bonds Initiative.
In addition, if the Certified Entity has undertaken new economic activities in addition  
to those previously taken into account when assessing compliance with the 
Certification Threshold (per Clause C.2.3.), the Applicant must re-apply for certification 
within 12 months of the start of the new economic activity. This new application must 
consider the new, expanded economic activities of the Certified Entity.  If the new 
application is not submitted or is not compliant with this PART C of the Standard,  
the existing Entity Certification will be revoked.    
Box C3: Maintaining Entity Certification   
Applicants seeking to maintain Entity Certification must submit the following 
documents to the Climate Bonds Standard Board Secretariat on an annual basis:
i. A completed Climate Bonds Information Form; 
ii. The annual Verification Report from an Approved Verifier which meets the 
requirements per Clause C.2.4.).
If the Climate Bonds Standard Board is satisfied that the Applicant is in conformance 
with the ongoing requirements, then it will provide a statement confirming the certified 
status of the Certified Entity.
iv. The Applicant supplies to the Climate Bonds Standard Board, through the Climate 
Bonds Standard Secretariat, a copy of the annual Verification Report or shares its 
location on a public website, for the purpose of publishing on the Climate Bonds 
Initiative website. 
See Box C3 for the process for maintaining Entity Certification: 
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 38
C.3. Transition Plan for Compliant Activities 
For each of the economic activities of the Certified Entity identified per Clause C.2.3., all of 
the following requirements must be met for it to be deemed a ‘Complying Activity.’ 
C.3.1. Climate Performance 
C.3.1.1. Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
C.3.1.1.1. Time horizon 
The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets cover the time from the date of 
certification to the date the activity is intended to hit net zero emissions, or 2050, 
whichever is sooner. 
C.3.1.1.2. Interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets include interim targets on a three-yearly 
basis for the nine years following the date of certification and a five-yearly basis 
thereafter over the full-time horizon described in Clause C.3.1.1.1.  
C.3.1.1.3. Alignment with decarbonisation pathways  
of the Climate Bonds Standard
The interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets (per Clause C.3.1.1.2) are 
benchmarked against the climate mitigation criteria in the Climate Bonds Standard 
Sector Criteria (Sector Criteria) and align with those Sector Criteria by 31 December 
2030 at the latest. 
N.B. Different levels of Entity Certification are awarded depending on the date the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets align with the Sector Criteria – see Box C4.
Box C4: Two levels of Entity Certification   
Two levels of Entity Certification are available, depending on when the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets align with the Sector Criteria. 
1. Level 1 – “Aligned”: The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets align with 
the Sector Criteria at the time of Certification and thereafter until the date the 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets represent net zero emissions or 2050, 
whichever is sooner.  
2. Level 2 – “Transition”: The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets do not align 
with the Sector Criteria at the time of Certification but align by 31st December 
2030 and thereafter until the date the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
represent net zero emissions or 2050, whichever is sooner.
In addition, for both levels, the Delivery Strategy and governance for achieving those 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets meets the requirements described in Clauses 
C.3.2  and C.3.3 respectively, the Parent Group complies with the requirements 
described in Clause C.4 and the disclosure requirements of Clause C.5 are met.
C.3.1.1.4. Board approval
The Board of the Certified Entity has approved the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets no earlier than one year prior to the application for Certification.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 39
C C.3.1.2. Climate Adaptation & Resilience Performance
The economic activity complies with any Climate Adaptation & Resilience Criteria 
specified in the relevant Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria. 
C.3.2. Delivery Strategy
C.3.2.1. Board approval of the Delivery Strategy 
If a Delivery Strategy is required for the economic activity*, that Delivery Strategy:
• Includes all the elements listed in Clauses C.3.2.2. – C.3.2.3.; and
• Has been approved by the Board of the Certified Entity no more than one year prior to 
the application for Certification.
*See supplementary guidance for the list of activities that do/ do not require  
a Delivery Strategy.  
C.3.2.2. Foundations
The Delivery Strategy includes the following foundational elements.
C.3.2.2.1. Vision
A Vision outlining the strategic objectives and priorities of the transition, outlining 
what the Certified Entity will look like in terms of its future economic activities, 
physical assets and business model that aligns with the long-term Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets of Clause C.3.1.1.
C.3.2.2.2. Strategic Narrative
A Strategic Narrative describing how each of the Compliant Activities of the Certified 
Entity will evolve from their current position to the Vision of Clause C.3.2.2.1., taking 
into account business context. 
C.3.2.2.3. Broader social and environmental alignment 
A position statement aligning the Vision and Strategic Narrative of Clauses C.3.2.2.1 
and C.3.2.2.2. with the Certified Entity’s broader environmental and social objectives, 
strategies and/ or policies, in particular demonstrating that effects on biodiversity 
sensitive areas, emissions to water and hazardous waste have been taken into account. 
In addition, the Certified Entity is not subject to a complaint to a National Contact Point of 
the OECD regarding Responsible Business Conduct of Multinational Enterprises. 
C.3.2.3. Implementation plans
Implementation plans include the following.
C.3.2.3.1. Action Plan for scope 1 & 2 emissions
A time-bound plan of the trackable actions the Certified Entity will take or is taking 
to implement its decarbonisation strategy as described in the Vision and Strategic 
Narrative and thereby deliver its Climate Mitigation Performance Targets regarding 
scope 1 & 2 emissions. 
This includes interim milestones and metrics annually for the five-year period of 
certification, three-yearly for the subsequent nine years and a five-yearly thereafter.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 40
C.3.2.3.2. Action Plan for Scope 3 Emissions
A time-bound plan of the trackable actions the Certified Entity will take or is taking 
to implement its decarbonisation strategy as described in the Vision and Strategic 
Narrative and thereby deliver its Climate Mitigation Performance Targets regarding 
scope 3 emissions. 
This includes interim milestones and metrics annually for the five-year period of 
certification, three-yearly for the subsequent nine years and a five-yearly thereafter.
N.B. This is only required if the relevant Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria 
address scope 3 emissions.
C.3.2.3.3. Finance Plan
A Finance Plan detailing the financial implications of the Strategic Narrative and Action 
Plans, and the trackable actions being taken/ to be taken to deliver this Finance Plan. 
This includes interim milestones and metrics annually for the five-year period of 
certification, three-yearly for the subsequent nine years and a five-yearly thereafter.
C.3.2.3.4. Internal policy alignment
Information on the key internal policies and conditions developed or to be 
developed to enable the delivery of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets, 
Strategic Narrative, Action Plans and Finance Plan, explaining how each of these 
policies supports specific elements and milestones in the Strategic Narrative, Action 
Plans and Finance Plan. 
C.3.2.3.5. Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis identifying the key sensitivities and risks to the Vision, Strategic 
Narrative, Action Plans and Finance Plan that have the potential to decisively impact 
the delivery of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets. 
C.3.3. Governance
The following accountability mechanisms are in place to govern the delivery of the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets and any associated Delivery Strategy. 
C.3.3.1. Board and senior executive responsibility 
C.3.3.1.1. Board mandate
The Board (or equivalent governance body) has a clear mandate to:
• Oversee the design of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and Delivery 
Strategy;
• Approve the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and Delivery Strategy; and
• Oversee the execution and monitor progress with the Delivery Strategy; and 
• Approve and monitor any corrective actions required where interim Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets and Delivery Strategy milestones are not being met. 
C.3.3.1.2. Senior management responsibility
Senior management has responsibility for execution of the Delivery Strategy, and the 
responsible parties have authority and access to resources to ensure execution.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 41
C C.3.3.2. (Re)setting and monitoring the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
and Delivery Strategy
C.3.3.2.1. (Re) setting Climate Mitigation Performance Targets  
and the Delivery Strategy
Tools and mechanisms are in place for the (re) setting of robust Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets and the Delivery Strategy, including a full review and, if 
necessary, update of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and the Delivery 
Strategy at least every five years.
C.3.3.2.2. Tracking and monitoring delivery
Tools and mechanisms are in place for tracking and monitoring of delivery of interim 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and the milestones and metrics identified in 
the Action Plans and Finance Plan. 
C.3.3.3. Correction of underperformance
In the event that interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and milestones and 
metrics due during the period of Certification have not been met, corrective action 
must be taken to reverse that under-performance so no interim Climate Mitigation 
Performance Target or milestone or metric is unmet for a period longer than 12 months.  
C.4. Commitments of the Parent Group
C.4.1. Exclusions
C.4.1.1. Expansion of fossil fuel activities
If any legal entity within the Parent Group is in the business of exploration or extraction or 
fossil fuels, or is a utility company generating or supplying power or heat generated from 
fossil fuels, the Parent Company has, within the last year, publicly (re)committed to no 
expansion of any of the following activities across the Parent Group after 1 January 2023:
i. The exploration and extraction of proven conventional and unconventional  
fossil fuel reserves;
ii. The exploration of new conventional and unconventional fossil fuel resources;
iii. Natural gas production;
iv. Refining crude oil to produce derivative products; 
v. The supply and/or use of fossil fuels for power generation and heat. 
C.4.1.2. Conversion of high-carbon-stock land
The Parent Company has, within the last year, publicly (re)committed that as of 1 
January 2020, no entity within the Parent Group has or will convert, fragment, or 
unsustainably intensify operations on high-carbon stock land leading to the loss of its 
status as high-carbon stock land.
C.4.2. Net zero commitment
The Parent Company has approved and made public net zero emissions commitment 
covering all material scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions of the entire Parent Group or already has 
net zero emissions as determined in line with the GHG Protocol and based on emission 
data that is independently verified/audited and not more than two years old. 
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 42
C.4.3. Transition Plans
The Parent Company has approved and made public corresponding Transition Plans to 
support the public net zero targets for the Parent Group (per Clause C.4.2).  
C.5. Disclosure
C.5.1. Information to disclose
The Applicant publishes and keeps accessible on their website the information 
presented in Table C1.  
C.5.2. Format of disclosure
Disclosures have been and will be made according to the customary practices regarding 
corporate disclosures, such as annual reporting, dedicated sustainability reporting, 
statutory filings, and investor presentations, at the discretion of the Applicant.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 43
C Table C1: Disclosure requirements for Entity Certification
Relevant 
clause
Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure 
thereafter
C.2.1 Applicant 
control of the 
Certified Entity
The name of the Applicant.
The entity that is the Certified Entity.
The relationship between the Applicant and the Certified 
Entity (if different).
Any changes in the 
relationship between  
the Applicant and the 
Certified Entity. 
C.2.2. Boundary 
of the Certified 
Entity
All activities of the Applicant company, noting which are 
included within the boundary of the Certified Entity and 
which are not, and the rationale for that.
All legal entities of the Applicant, noting which are included 
within the boundary of the Certified Entity and which are not.
Any activities of the Applicant which are not included in the 
boundary of the Certified Entity and the rationale for that. 
Any changes to activities 
and/ or legal entities of the 
Applicant, and how this 
has or has not changed 
the boundary/ activities 
included within the 
boundary of the Certified 
Entity.
C.2.3. Obtaining 
Entity 
Certification
Which of the economic activities of the Certified Entity 
have been counted towards the 90% Certification 
Threshold and which have not. 
The method used to disaggregate and weight different 
economic activities within the Certified Entity to determine 
compliance with the Certification Threshold (revenue or 
emissions).
Which legal entities form part of the Parent Group, and the 
economic activities they practice.
The assurance or external review provider.
The level of assurance obtained (limited assurance or 
reasonable assurance) where appropriate
The professional standard(s) against which the Verification 
Engagement was performed. 
The Approved Verifier’s pre-Certification Verification Report. 
n/a
C.2.4 
Maintaining 
Entity 
Certification
n/a The assurance/external 
review  provider.
The level of assurance 
obtained where relevant.
The professional 
standard(s) against which 
the Verification Engagement 
was performed. 
The Approved Verifier’s 
annual Verification Report. 
Any revocation of 
Certification.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 44
Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure 
thereafter
C.3.1.1.  Climate 
Mitigation 
Performance 
Targets 
The interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets over 
the full-time horizon i.e. on a three-yearly basis for the 
nine years following certification, and a five-yearly basis 
thereafter (per Clauses C.3.1.1.1 and C.3.1.1.2) 
The Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria that the 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets have been 
assessed against (per Clause C.3.1.1.3)
The date the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets were 
approved by the Board of the Certified Entity
Any changes in the 
relationship between  
the Applicant and the 
Certified Entity. 
Whether the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets align 
with the Sector Specific Criteria at the time of Certification. If 
not, the year by which they are expected to align. 
Related to that, whether Certification is Level 1 (“Aligned”) or 
Level 2 (“Transition”) (per Clause C.3.1.1.3)
Whether alignment 
with the Climate Bonds 
Standard Sector Criteria 
has been achieved (per 
Clause C.3.1.1.3)
Any changes to the 
expected date the Climate 
Mitigation Performance 
Targets are expected to 
align with the Climate 
Bonds Standard Sector 
Criteria (earlier or later) 
and any related change to 
the level of Certification 
awarded (per Clause 
C.3.1.1.3).
C.3.2.1. Approval 
of the Delivery 
Strategy
The activities of the Certified Entity covered by the 
Delivery Strategy. 
In cases where some or all of the activities of the Certified 
Entity are not required to have a Delivery Strategy, whether 
and, if so, when a Delivery Strategy will be adopted.
The date of Board approval of the Delivery Strategy. 
The date of Board 
approval of any changes 
to the Delivery Strategy 
reset since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
C.3.2.2.1. 
Foundations 
of the Delivery 
Strategy - Vision
A description of the Vision addressing the elements 
described in Clause 3.2.2.1., and how this aligns with the 
delivery of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets.
The extent, role and source of any carbon offsets, carbon 
removals and avoided emissions the Certified Entity 
anticipates employing to address any residual emissions 
over and above those required to meet the Climate Bonds 
Standard Sector Criteria. 
Any amendments to the 
Vision since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 45
C Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure 
thereafter
C.3.2.2.2. 
Foundations 
of the Delivery 
Strategy – 
Strategic 
Narrative
A description of the Strategic Narrative addressing: 
• Current GHG emissions, in absolute emissions terms and 
any other metrics such as emissions intensity detailed 
in the Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria. Including 
information on the current sources and volume of 
GHG emissions and how and by whom this has been 
calculated and verified. 
• Key decarbonisation levers, their anticipated timing and 
emissions reduction impact
• Assumed market trends, business growth, pricing and 
demand underpinning the transition strategy as well as 
regulatory and government policy assumptions.
• Significant challenges in delivering the strategy.
• Significant areas of uncertainty in estimation, 
assumptions, or outcomes. 
• How the Certified Entity embedded the strategy in its 
wider business model, highlighting key implications for 
products and services, resourcing and operational and 
capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments.
Any significant amendments 
to the Strategic Narrative 
since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
C.3.2.2.3. 
Foundations 
of the Delivery 
Strategy 
–Broader 
environmental 
and social 
alignment
A summary assessment of the negative environmental 
or social externalities related to delivering the Vision and 
Strategic Narrative. 
A summary description of the steps that the Certified Entity 
is taking, or planning to take, to mitigate those impacts.
A summary description of how, if at all, the decarbonisation 
transition contributes to the Just Transition in the region in 
which the activities are carried out. 
An update on the 
assessment of the 
negative environmental 
or social externalities 
related to main actions 
supporting the Delivery 
Strategy, and the steps 
that the Certified Entity is 
taking, or planning to take, 
to mitigate those impacts.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 46
Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure thereafter
C.3.2.3.1.  
Implementation 
Plans – Action 
Plan for scope 1 
& 2 emissions
The roadmap of the short-, medium- and long-
term actions the Certified Entity will take to 
deliver the decarbonisation levers relating to 
scope 1 & 2 emissions and hence the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets. 
The milestones and business and operations 
metrics that will be used to track performance. 
An overview of which actions, milestones 
and metrics are subject to external review 
including the nature of the review.
Progress and track record against 
the milestones and business or 
operational metrics identified in the 
Action Plan for Scope 1 & 2 Emissions. 
Where any milestones or business 
or operational targets falling due 
since the previous Verification 
Engagement have been not been met, 
the corrective actions being taken to 
address this within 12 months (in line 
with Clause C.3.3.)
Any significant amendments to the Action 
Plan for Scope 1 & 2 Emissions since the 
previous Verification Engagement.
C.3.2.3.2. 
Implementation 
Plans – Action 
Plan for scope 3 
Emissions
A high-level description of the Action Plan for 
Scope 3 Emissions describing the objectives, 
scope of coverage and actions that will be taken 
to reduce value chain emissions necessary 
for delivery any related decarbonisation lever 
identified in the strategic narrative. 
The interim milestones and metrics that will 
enable assessment of progress in the delivery of 
the Action Plan for Scope 3 Emissions.  
Progress and track record against 
the interim milestones and metrics 
identified in the Action Plan for  
Scope 3 Emissions. 
Where any milestones or metrics 
falling due since the previous 
Verification Engagement have been 
not been met, the corrective actions 
being taken to address this within 12 
months (in line with Clause C.3.3.)
Any significant amendments to the 
Action Plan for Scope 3 Emissions since 
the previous Verification Engagement. 
C.3.2.3.3. 
Implementation 
Plans – Finance 
Plan
A description of the financial implications of 
the planned changes to the entity’s business 
strategy, resource allocation and products 
and services arising from its Transition 
Plan, including relevant financial plans and 
investment where possible.
An explanation of how the above impacts  
have been integrated into general purpose 
financial reporting.
The financial metrics and targets that will be 
used to assess progress in the delivery of the 
Finance Plan and the current value of those 
metrics, and the methodologies by which 
those metrics will be calculated.  
Metrics that have significant estimation 
uncertainty, noting the sources and nature of 
the estimation uncertainties and the factors 
affecting the uncertainties. 
Progress and track record against  
the interim financial milestones  
and metrics. 
Where any milestones or metrics 
falling due since the previous 
Verification Engagement have been 
not been met, the corrective actions 
being taken to address this within 12 
months (in line with Clause C.3.3.)
Any significant amendments to the 
Finance Plan since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 47
C Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure thereafter
C.3.2.3.4. 
Implementation 
plans - Internal 
policy alignment
The key internal policies that need to 
be developed to deliver the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets and the 
Delivery Strategy, and a schedule for their 
development and implementation.
Progress against the schedule for  
the developing and implementing the 
identified internal policies key  
to the delivery of the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets and 
the Delivery Strategy. 
C.3.2.3.5. 
Implementation 
Plans – 
Sensitivity 
analysis
Key sensitivities and risks around the Delivery 
Strategy and achievement of the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets. 
The threshold or methodology for determining 
which sensitivities and risks have been 
identified as key, taking into account the 
materiality of cumulative or aggregated 
uncertainties or challenges.  
Quantification of the potential impact in terms 
of the likelihood, timing and cost of delivery of 
the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets. 
How these impacts are reflected in the Strategic 
Narrative, Action Plans and Finance Plan.
Any significant changes to the results 
of the Sensitivity Analysis since the 
previous Verification Engagement.
How these changes have been 
addressed in the Vision, Strategic 
Narrative, Action Plans and/ or 
Finance Plan as appropriate. 
C.3.3.1. 
Governance 
- Board and 
senior executive 
responsibility
The named individual, committee or Board 
responsible for the Transition Plan.
The management structure in place for 
executing the Transition Plan.
How frequently the Board reviews the 
Transition Plan, and how frequently the Board 
will monitor and receive reports on progress 
against the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets and milestones.
How the Certified Entity ensures adequate 
climate expertise (e.g., management expertise, 
provided resources, trainings, skill acquisition).
Any KPIs tied to Board, CEO or other senior 
executive compensation plans that are aligned 
with the organization’s climate goals, as 
described in the Transition Plan.
Any responsibility related targets and progress 
against those targets. 
Any changes to the named individual, 
committee, or Board responsible for 
the Transition Plan.
Any changes or additions to climate 
and/ or transition-related KPIs 
tied to Board, CEO or other senior 
compensation plans.
Performance against the disclosed 
responsibility-related metrics  
and targets.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 48
Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure thereafter
C.3.3.2. 
Governance - 
(Re)setting and 
monitoring 
the Climate 
Mitigation 
Performance 
Targets and 
Delivery Strategy
Information on internal controls that are in place to 
scrutinise the Transition Plan, and progress against 
the plan, by relevant internal assurance functions 
such as internal audit.
Stakeholder communication and feedback 
mechanisms, including whether the Transition Plan 
is scrutinised by shareholders (such as through an 
advisory vote at the entity’s Annual General Meeting, 
or resolution subject to shareholder approval).
Information on the process and internal controls for 
monitoring and tracking performance regarding the 
interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and 
milestones and targets identified in the Action Plans 
and Finance Plan. This includes information on any 
tracking and estimation tools, including but not limited 
to GHG performance tools, and any equivalents for 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets that are not 
expressed in terms of GHG emissions.
Information on the process for regularly reviewing 
the Transition Plan to ensure material updates are 
incorporated and challenges are addressed. 
Commitment by the Applicant to review the 
Transition Plan at least every 5 years.
Date of the last and the next scheduled review. 
Any changes to the controls, 
tools and mechanisms 
disclosed in the previous 
Verification Engagement.
If the scheduled review fell due 
since the previous Verification 
Engagement, all reset Climate 
Mitigation Performance 
Targets and Delivery Strategy 
disclosure requirements 
detailed under Clauses C.3.1 
and C.3.2. 
Any changes to the date of the 
next scheduled review.
C.3.3.3.  
Governance 
- Correction 
of underper-
formance
n/a
 
Any corrective actions 
planned to address any 
underperformance, with an 
explanation of how they will 
address that underperformance. 
C.4.1. Parent 
Group 
Commitments – 
Exclusions 
Commitment by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group to zero future expansion of any of the 
activities detailed in Clause C.4.1.1. 
Statement by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group that no entity within the Parent Group 
has expanded any of the activities detailed in Clause 
C.4.1.1 since 1 January 2023.
Statement from the Parent 
Company on behalf of the Parent 
Group that no entity within the 
Parent Group has expanded 
any of the activities detailed in 
Clause C.4.1.1 since the previous 
Verification Engagement. 
Commitment by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group that no entity within the Parent Group 
will or is planning to convert high carbon stock land 
as detailed in Clause C.4.1.2. 
Statement by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group that no entity within the Parent Group 
has converted high carbon stock land (as detailed in 
Clause C.4.1.2) since 1 January 2020.
Statement by the Parent 
Company on behalf of the Parent 
Group that no entity within the 
Parent Group has converted high 
carbon stock land (as detailed in 
Clause C.4.1.2) since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 49
C Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure thereafter
C.4.2. Parent 
Group 
Commitments - 
Net zero 
Commitment by the Parent Company to net zero 
emissions and the expected date for net zero – 
covering the entire Parent Group (per Clause C.4.2)  
Any changes to the net zero 
commitment for the Parent 
Group (per Clause C.4.2)
C.4.3. Parent 
Group Commit-
ments – Transi-
tion Plan
A description of the Transition Plan outlining how 
the Parent Group will achieve net zero emissions (per 
Clause C.4.3) 
 
Any updates to the Transition 
Plan for the Parent Group (per 
Clause C.4.3)
If any part of the Parent Group 
practices any of the activities 
described under Clause C.4.1.1., 
the expected timing to fully 
cease those activities.
C.6.1. Extending 
Entity 
Certification 
- to financial 
instruments 
linked to 
the Climate 
Mitigation 
Performance 
Targets and 
Transition Plans
Details of any financial instrument to which Entity 
Certification was linked at the time of Entity 
Certification.
Details of any financial 
instrument to which Entity 
Certification has been extended 
since the last Verification 
Engagement. 
C.6.2. Extending 
Entity 
Certification - to 
general purpose 
debt
Details of any financial instrument to which Entity 
Certification was linked at the time of Entity 
Certification.
Details of any financial 
instrument to which Entity 
Certification has been  
extended since the last 
Verification Engagement.
C.6.3. Extended 
entity 
Certification 
- revocation 
of linked 
certification
n/a Details of revocation of  
any instrument to which  
Entity Certification was 
previously extended.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 50
C.6. Extending entity certification to linked  
financial instruments 
C.6.1. Extending entity certification to financial instruments 
linked to the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets  
and Delivery Strategy
The Applicant may use Entity Certification as a stepping-stone to certification of financial 
instruments linked to the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and Delivery Strategy 
of the Certified Entity as assessed per Clause C.3, such as a Sustainability-Linked Bond or 
Loan, or a compatible Use-of-Proceeds Bond.  
Certification is not automatically extended to these financial instruments. It requires an 
Approved Verifier to verify the link between the Entity certification and Sustainability-
Linked Debt (SLD)/ Use-of-Proceeds Certification under Part D/ Part A of the Standard and 
meet any other SLD/ Use-of-Proceeds criteria as described in this document.   
C.6.2. Extending entity certification to general purpose debt
A Certified Entity may also apply for certification of any general-purpose debt issued 
by the same Certified Entity, such as commercial paper, revolving credit facilities or a 
general-purpose bond. 
A company wishing to certify its general-purpose debt must complete the Climate Bonds 
Information Form and submit it to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat. The Climate 
Bonds Secretariat will award the Certification without needing a Verification Report by  
an Approved Verifier. 
C.6.3. Revocation of linked certification
Should certification of the Certified Entity lapse or be revoked for any reason  
in accordance with Box C2, certification of any linked instrument still outstanding  
will also be publicly revoked.
C
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 51
C PART D: SUSTAINABILITY- 
LINKED DEBT
D.1. Introduction
The requirements for Sustainability-Linked Debt (SLD) Certification closely mirror  
those for Entity Certification. Additional disclosure elements have, however, been  
added into the requirements for SLD Certification concerning the structural characteristics 
of SLD instruments. 
Currently, SLD Certification is only available to SLD instruments issued by legal entities, or 
segments thereof, providing non-financial goods and services for which the Climate Bonds 
Initiative has Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria for SLD Certification.  
Certified SLD instruments may be linked to economic activities that either have 
emissions already at or near zero or significantly above zero but with Transition Plans 
aligned with 1.5C degree pathways. Certification focused only on the climate mitigation 
aspects of any performance targets linked to the SLD instrument. Where the performance 
targets linked to Certified SLD instruments relate to social or other environmental goals, 
Certification confers no assurance over those performance targets or any associated 
(elements of a) transition plan.  
SLD Certification is valid for the full term of the SLD instrument, subject to 
compliance with the requirements laid out in PART D. 
Figure D1 summarises the steps to SLD Certification. Figure D2 illustrates the certification 
requirements for the economic activities represented by the Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets linked to the SLD instrument. Figure D3 illustrates additional 
certification requirements relating to wider activities of the Issuer (if any) and the Parent 
Group to which it belongs (if any). 
A Checklist for Certification providing further clarification on the requirements to comply 
with the criteria for SLD Certification is given in the accompanying ‘SLD Certification 
Checklist’ document. That Checklist must be adhered to in conjunction with the 
requirements in this Part D.  
D

Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 52
DFigure D1: Steps to SLD Certification*
Certified 
SLD
Compliant Activities 
have ambitious 
Performance 
Targets, supporting 
Transition Plans and 
governance, and 
adequate disclosure 
and verification
Compliant Parent Groups 
meet the Climate Safeguards 
and have adequate 
disclosure and verification
*These are the steps and requirements to obtain certification. The steps and requirements for maintaining certification are different.   
See Clause D.2.4.
Clause 
D.2.1.
Applicant has 
control over 
economic 
activities
Clause 
D.2.2.
Eligible 
boundary 
for economic 
activities  
is set
Clause 
D.2.3.
All confirmed 
by Approved 
VerifierClause 
D.4.,D.5.
Parent Group 
is compliant
Clause 
D.2.3.
Compliant 
activities 
represent 90% 
of economic 
activities
Clause 
D.3.,D.5.
Each of those 
economic 
activities is 
assessed for 
compliance
Clause 
D.2.3.
Economic 
activities are 
disaggregated
Fig. D.2.
Fig. D.3.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 53
D D
D.3.1.  
Climate 
Performance
D.3.2.2.  
Foundation
D.3.3.  
Governance
D.3.2.3.  
Implementa-
tion
D.5.  
Disclosure
Transition Plan Transparency
D.3.1.2. 
Adaptation  
& resilience
D.3.2.2.2. 
Strategic 
narrative
D.3.3.2.   
(Re)setting & 
monitoring 
Targets & 
PlansD.3.2.2.3.  
Environmen-
tal & social 
goal alignment D.3.3.3.   
Correction 
of underper-
formance
D.3.2.3.2. 
Action Plan 
scope 3
D.3.2.3.3. 
Finance Plan
D.3.2.3.4. 
Internal policy 
alignment
D.3.2.3.5. 
Sensitivity 
analysis
D.3.1.1.  
Climate 
mitigation
D.3.2.2.1.  
Vision
D.3.3.1.  
Board & senior  
executive 
responsibility
D.3.2.3.1.  
Action Plan 
scope 1 & 2
D.5.1.  
Information 
to disclose
Figure D2: Requirements for Compliant Activities
Performance 
targets
Climate 
performance 
targets to assess 
and monitor 
progress to 1.5 
degree alignment 
Foundation* 
Vision of future 
activities, products, 
services and 
technologies and 
strategic narrative 
on levers and risks 
to get there
Implementation 
plans*
Trackable transition 
roadmap of action 
plans, milestones 
and operating and 
financial metrics 
 
Governance 
Oversight, 
monitoring and 
management of 
progress
Disclosure 
Public information 
for transparency 
and credibility
*Where required for that sector.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 54
D
Transition Goals Transparency
Figure D3: Requirements on the Parent Group
Climate 
Performance
Transition strategy Disclosure
D.4.2.  
Net zero commitment
D.4.1.  
Exclusions
D.4.3.  
Transition Plan
D.5.1.  
Information to 
disclose
Climate Performance
Commitments not to 
undertake excluded 
activities and to achieve 
net zero emissions
Transition strategy
Outlines of a Transition 
Plan to achieve that net 
zero target
Disclosure
Information shared 
publicly for credibility
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 55
D D.2. Eligibility and accounting rules 
D.2.1. Issuer control 
The Issuer has operational control over the economic activities represented by the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets linked to the SLD instrument.
D.2.2. Boundary of economic activities 
The Issuer may set the boundary of the economic activities represented by the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets linked to the SLD instrument at their discretion, subject to 
the following condition: 
Where the same economic activity is carried out across multiple sub-divisions or 
subsidiaries or companies controlled by the same legal entity, the Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets must address all instances of that activity across all sub-divisions 
and companies controlled by the Issuer. 
D.2.3. Obtaining SLD Certification
The Issuer receives a Verification Report from an Approved Verifier that: 
i. At least 90% of economic activity(ies) represented by the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets linked to the SLD instrument comply with the Climate Performance, Delivery Strategy, 
Governance and Disclosure requirements in Clauses D.3.1, D.3.2, D.3.3 and D.5, respectively; and  
ii. The remaining % of the economic activity(ies) represented by the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets linked to the SLD instrument comply with the Climate 
Performance, Delivery Strategy, Governance and Disclosure requirements in Clauses 
D.3.1.1.1, D.3.1.2.2, D.3.1.2, D.3.2, D.3.3 and D.5, respectively; and
iii. The Parent Group complies with the Climate Safeguard and Disclosure requirements 
in Clauses D.4 and D.5, respectively; and 
iv. The SLD instrument will not mature or become callable before the date of the first 
interim Performance Target to which the instrument is linked. 
And 
The Issuer supplies the Climate Bonds Standard Board, through the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat, with a copy of the Verification Report or shares its location on a public 
website, for the purpose of publishing on the Climate Bonds Initiative website.
And
If the SLD instrument has Use-of-Proceeds elements (i.e., it is a hybrid), it meets the 
requirements for Use-of-Proceeds bonds described in PART A of this document. 
See Box D1 for the application process for obtaining SLD Certification.
A note on terminology: This 90% is defined as the ‘Certification Threshold’ , and economic 
activities which meet the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets, Delivery Strategy, 
Governance and Disclosure requirements per Clauses D.3.1, D.3.2, D.3.3 and D.5 respectively 
and hence form part of this 90% are the ‘Compliant Activities’ .
To assess compliance with this threshold the economic activities represented by the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets linked to the SLD instrument are disaggregated and 
weighted according to either their revenue share or share of GHG emissions. See the  
‘SLD Certification Checklist’ document for the methodology to determine compliance. 
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 56
D.2.4. Maintaining SLD certification 
The Issuer receive s an annual Verification Report from an Approved Verifier that:
i. In respect of the activity(ies) represented by the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets linked to the SL D instrument:
a. If, since the last Verification Engagement , t he revenue share of any existing part of 
the Issuer’s acti vities represented by the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets that 
did not previously contribute to meeting the Certification Threshold increases, the 
Issuer has re assessed compliance with the Certification Threshold and the Certified 
SLD instrument st ill meets the Certification Threshold ( per Clause D. 2.1).
Box D1: The application process for SLD Certification   
Single SLD Certification
Issuers seeking SLD Certification shall apply by submitting the following documents to 
the Climate Bonds Standard Board Secretariat: 
1. A completed (as appropriate) Climate Bonds Information Form; and
2. The Verification Report satisfying the requirements in Clause D.2.3.; and 
3. An executed Certification Agreement. 
If the Climate Bonds Standard Board is satisfied that the Issuer is in conformance 
with the Pre-Issuance requirements, then it will provide a statement confirming the 
Certification of the SLD.
The Issuer will identify within the Climate Bonds Information Form which information 
provided is confidential and which can be publicly disclosed on the Climate Bonds 
Initiative website once Certification has been confirmed.
Programmatic SLD Certification
Programmatic Certification allows an Issuer who meets the requirements of Clauses 
D.2, D.3, D.4 and D.5 above to certify a number of SLD instruments which share 
common Transition Plans.
For the first SLD instrument under the Program, the Issuer follows the standard process 
for Climate Bond Certification as per ‘Single SLD Certification’ . For subsequent SLD 
instruments under the Program, the Issuer must apply to the Climate Bonds Standard 
Board to receive Certification of each subsequent instrument’s conformance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard, as follows:
i. Prior to issuance, the Issuer must supply the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat 
with a completed Climate Bonds Information Form for the specific SLD instrument 
to be considered for Certification. The Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat will 
promptly provide the Issuer with formal confirmation of Certification of the specific 
SLD instrument.
ii. Following every debt instrument issuance, the Issuer must supply the Climate 
Bonds Standard Secretariat with an updated Climate Bonds Information Form.
iii. The annual Verification Reports described in Clause D.2.4 must cover all the SLD 
instruments issued under the programme.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 57
D b. All interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets (per Clause D.3.1.1.) and all 
interim milestones in the Delivery Strategy (per Clauses D.3.2.) falling due since the 
last Verification Engagement ha ve been met. The only exception to this may be where 
compensatory measures have been taken or are planned to address underperformance 
and those measures collectively meet the requirements in Clause D.3.3.;
c. Any and all correction measures have been taken to address any anticipated 
underperformance in the delivery of the Delivery Strategy and future interim Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets (per Clause D.3.3.); and
d. All disclosure requirements have been m et (per Clause D.5.);
and
The Parent Group remains in compliance (per Clauses D.4. and D.5.);
and
The Issuer is not subject to revocation of Certification due to any of the events detailed in Box D2.
and
The Issuer supplies the Climate Bonds Standard Board, through the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat, with a copy of the annual Verification Report or shares its location on 
a public website, for the purpose of publishing on the Climate Bonds Initiative website.
See Box D3 for the process for maintaining SLD Certification
Box D2: Events leading to the revocation of SLD Certification   
SLD Certification will be rescinded at any time where:
1. The Issuer becomes aware that the Certified SLD instrument and/or the Parent Group 
no longer conforms with the Climate Bonds Standard and provides a written statement 
to that effect to the Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat; or
2. A Verification Engagement commissioned by the Climate Bonds Standard Board 
finds that the Certified SLD instrument and/or the Parent Group no longer conforms 
with the Climate Bonds Standard; or
3. The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets to which the SLD instrument is linked 
are reset at a level lower than those in place at the time of Certification; or
4. The Issuer has breached any contractual obligation towards the Climate Bonds Initiative.
Box D3: Maintaining SLD Certification   
Applicants seeking to maintain Entity Certification must submit the following 
documents to the Climate Bonds Standard Board Secretariat on an annual basis:
iii. A completed Climate Bonds Information Form; 
iv. The annual Verification Report by an Approved Verifier which meets the 
requirements of Clause D.2.4.
If the Climate Bonds Standard Board is satisfied that the Applicant is in conformance 
with the ongoing requirements, it will provide a statement confirming the certified 
status of the SLD instrument.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 58
Box D4: Two levels of SLD Certification   
Two levels of SLD Certification levels are available, depending on when the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets align with the Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria.
3. Level 1 – “Aligned”: The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets align with the 
Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria at the time of certification and thereafter 
until the date the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets represent net zero emissions 
or 2050, whichever is sooner.
4. Level 2 – “Transition”: The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets do not align 
with the Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria at the time of certification but 
align by 31st December 2030 and thereafter until the date the Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets represent net zero emissions or 2050, whichever is sooner.
In addition, for both levels, the Delivery Strategy and governance for the achieving 
those Climate Mitigation Performance Targets meet the requirements described in 
Clauses D.3.2 and D.3.3, respectively, the Parent Group complies with the requirements 
described in Clause D.4 and the disclosure requirements of Clause D.5 are met.
D.3. Transition Plan linked to the SLD instrument 
D.3.1. Climate Performance
D.3.1.1. Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets to which the SLD instrument is linked meet 
the following requirements. 
D.3.1.1.1. Time horizon 
The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets cover the time from the date of 
Certification to the date the activity is intended to hit net zero emissions, or 2050, 
whichever is sooner. 
D.3.1.1.2. Interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets
The Climate Mitigation Performance Targets include interim targets on a three-yearly 
basis for the term of the SLD instrument and a five-yearly basis thereafter over the 
full-time horizon described in Clause D.3.1.1.1.  
D.3.1.1.3. Alignment with decarbonisation pathways  
of the Climate Bonds Standard 
All interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets (per Clause D.3.1.1.2) representing 
economic activities that contribute to meeting the Compliance Threshold (see 
Clause D.2.3) are benchmarked against the climate mitigation criteria in the Climate 
Bonds Standard Sector Criteria and align with those criteria by 31 December 2030  
at the latest. 
N.B. Different levels of SLD Certification are awarded depending on the date the 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets align with the Climate Bonds Standard Sector 
Criteria – see Box D4.
D.3.1.1.4. Board approval
The Board of the Issuer has approved the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets no 
earlier than one year prior to application for Certification.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 59
D D.3.1.2. Climate Adaptation & Resilience Performance
The economic activities of the Issuer represented by the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets linked to the SLD instrument also meet any climate adaptation and resilience 
requirements in the relevant Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria. 
D.3.2. Delivery Strategy 
D.3.2.1. Board approval of the Delivery Strategy
If a Delivery Strategy is required* for the economic activity(ies) represented by the 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets per Clause D.3.1.1., that Strategy: 
• Includes all the elements listed in Clauses D.3.2.2. and D.3.2.3.; and
• Has been approved by the Board of the Issuer no more than one year prior to the 
application for Certification.
* See supplementary guidance for the list of economic activities that do/ do not require 
a Delivery Strategy.  
D.3.2.2. Foundations
The Delivery Strategy includes the following foundational elements. 
D.3.2.2.1. Vision
A Vision outlining the long-term strategic objectives and priorities for the economic 
activity(ies) of the Issuer represented by the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets of 
Clause D.3.1.1., including the long-term vision for its physical assets and operating model.
D.3.2.2.2. Strategic Narrative
A Strategic Narrative describing how each of the economic activity(ies) of the Issuer 
represented by the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets will evolve from their 
current position to the Vision of Clause D.3.2.2.1. taking into account business context. 
D.3.2.2.3. Broader social and environmental alignment
A position statement aligning the Vision and Strategic Narrative of Clauses 
D.3.2.2.1 and D.3.2.2.2. with the Issuer’s broader environmental and social 
objectives, strategies and/ or policies, in particular demonstrating that effects on 
biodiversity sensitive areas, emissions to water and hazardous waste have been 
taken into account. 
In addition, the Issuer is not subject to a complaint to a National Contact Point of the 
OECD regarding Responsible Business Conduct of Multinational Enterprises.
D.3.2.3. Implementation plans
Implementation plans include the following.
D.3.2.3.1. Action Plan for scope 1 & 2 emissions
A time-bound plan of the trackable actions the Issuer will take or is taking to 
implement its decarbonisation strategy as described in the Vision and Strategic 
Narrative and thereby deliver its Climate Mitigation Performance Targets regarding 
scope 1 & 2 emissions. 
This includes interim milestones and metrics annually for the first five years of 
certification, three-yearly for the subsequent nine years and a five-yearly thereafter.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 60
D.3.2.3.2. Action Plan for scope 3 emissions
A time-bound plan of the trackable actions the Issuer will take or is taking to 
implement its decarbonisation strategy as described in the Vision and Strategic 
Narrative and thereby deliver its Climate Mitigation Performance Targets regarding 
scope 3 emissions. 
This includes interim milestones and metrics annually for the first five years of 
certification, three-yearly for the subsequent nine years and a five-yearly thereafter.
N.B. This is only required if the relevant Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria 
address scope 3 emissions.
D.3.2.3.3. Finance Plan 
A Finance Plan detailing the financial implications of the Strategic Narrative  
and Action Plans, and the trackable actions being taken/ to be taken to deliver  
this Finance Plan. 
This includes interim milestones and metrics annually for the first five years of 
certification, three-yearly for the subsequent nine years and a five-yearly thereafter.
D.3.2.3.4. Internal policy alignment
Information on the key internal policies and conditions developed or to be 
developed to enable the delivery of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets, 
Strategic Narrative, Action Plans and Finance Plan, explaining how each of these 
policies supports specific elements and milestones in the Strategic Narrative, Action 
Plans and Finance Plan.   
D.3.2.3.5. Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis identifying the key sensitivities and risks to the Vision, Strategic 
Narrative, Action Plans and Finance Plan that have the potential to decisively impact 
the delivery of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets. 
D.3.3. Governance
The following accountability mechanisms are in place to govern the delivery of the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets (per Clause D.3.1.1.) and the associated Delivery Strategy 
(per Clause D.3.2.) 
D.3.3.1. Board and senior executive responsibility 
D.3.3.1.1. Board mandate
The Board (or equivalent governance body) has a clear mandate to:
• Oversee the design of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and Delivery 
Strategy; and
• Approve the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and Delivery Strategy; and
• Oversee the execution and monitor progress with the Delivery Strategy; and 
• Approve and monitor any corrective actions required where interim Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets and Delivery Strategy milestones are not being met. 
D.3.3.1.2. Senior management responsibility
Senior management has responsibility for execution of the Delivery Strategy, and the 
responsible parties have authority and access to resources to ensure execution.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 61
D D.3.3.2. (Re)setting and monitoring the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
and Delivery Strategy
D.3.3.2.1.(Re) setting Climate Mitigation Performance Targets  
and the Delivery Strategy
Tools and mechanisms are in place for the (re) setting of robust Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets and the Delivery Strategy, including a full review and, if 
necessary, update of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and the Delivery 
Strategy at least every five years.
D.3.3.2.2. Tracking and monitoring delivery
Tools and mechanisms are in place for tracking and monitoring of delivery of interim 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and the milestones and metrics identified in 
the Action Plans and Finance Plan. 
D.3.3.3. Correction of underperformance
In the event that interim Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and milestones and 
metrics due during the period of Certification have not been met, corrective action 
must be taken to reverse that under-performance so no interim Climate Mitigation 
Performance Target or milestone or metric is unmet for a period longer than 12 months, 
or by the maturity of the SLD instrument, whichever is earlier.  
D.4. Commitments of the Parent Group
D.4.1. Exclusions 
D.4.1.1. Expansion of fossil fuel activities
If any legal entity within the Parent Group is in the business of the exploration or 
extraction of fossil fuels, or is a utility company generating or supplying power or heat 
generated from fossil fuels, then the Parent Company has, within the last year, publicly 
(re)committed to no expansion of any of the following activities across the Parent Group 
after 1 January 2023:
i. The exploration and extraction of proven conventional and unconventional fossil 
fuel reserves; and
ii. The exploration of new conventional and unconventional fossil fuel resources; 
and
iii. Natural gas production; and
iv. Refining crude oil to produce derivative products; and
v. The supply and/or use of fossil fuels for power generation and heat. 
D.4.1.2. Conversion of high-carbon-stock land
The Parent Company has, within the last year, publicly (re)committed that as of 1 Jan 
2020, no entity within the Parent Group has or will convert, fragment, or unsustainably 
intensify operations on high-carbon stock land leading to the loss of its status as high-
carbon stock land.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 62
D.4.2. Net zero Commitment 
The Parent Company has approved and made public net zero emissions commitments 
covering all material scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions of the entire Parent Group or already has 
net zero emissions as determined in line with the GHG Protocol and based on emission 
data that is independently verified/audited and not more than two years old. 
D.4.3. Transition Plans
The Parent Company has approved and made public corresponding transition plans to 
support net zero targets for the Parent Group (per Clause D.4.2).  
D.5. Disclosure
D.5.1. Information to disclose
The Issuer publishes and keeps accessible on their website the information presented in 
Table D1. 
D.5.2. Format of disclosure
Disclosures must be made according to the customary practices regarding corporate 
disclosures, such as via annual reporting, dedicated sustainability reporting, statutory 
filings, and investor presentations, but this is at the discretion of the Issuer.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 63
D Table D1: Disclosure requirements for SLD Certification
Relevant 
clause
Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure 
thereafter
D.2.1 Issuer 
control
The name of the Issuer.
D.2.2. Boundary 
of the economic 
activities
All economic activities of the Issuer, noting which are 
included within the boundary of the Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets linked to the SLD instrument and 
which are not, and the rationale for that.
D.2.3. Obtaining 
SLD Certification
Which economic activities of the Issuer have been counted 
towards the 90% Certification Threshold and which have not.  
The method used to disaggregate and weight those 
different economic activities within the portfolio of 
activities of the Issuer (revenue or emissions) to determine 
compliance with the Certification Threshold.
Which legal entities form part of the Parent Group, and the 
economic activities they practice.
The assurance/external review provider.
The level of assurance obtained (limited assurance or 
reasonable assurance) where relevant.
The professional standard(s) against which the Verification 
Engagement was performed. 
The Approved Verifier’s pre-Certification Verification Report. 
n/a
D.2.4 
Maintaining SLD 
Certification
n/a The assurance provider.
The level of assurance 
obtained where relevant.
The professional 
standard(s) against which 
the Verification Engagement 
was performed. 
The Approved Verifier’s 
annual Verification Report. 
Any revocation of 
Certification.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 64
Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure thereafter
D.3.1.1.  Climate 
Mitigation 
Performance 
Targets 
The interim Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets over the full-time horizon i.e., on 
a three-yearly basis for the nine years 
following certification, and a five-yearly 
basis thereafter until the activity reaches net 
zero emissions or 2050, whichever is sooner 
(per Clauses D.3.1.1.1 and D.3.1.1.2). 
The Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria 
that the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets have been assessed against (per 
Clause D.3.1.1.3).
The date the Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets were approved by the 
Board of the Issuer.
Whether any interim Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets falling due since the 
previous Verification Engagement have 
been met (per Clause D.3.1.1.2).
If interim Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets falling due since the previous 
Verification Engagement have not been 
met, the corrective actions that will 
ensure compliance within 12 months or 
by the maturity of the SLD instrument, 
whichever is earlier (per Clause D.3.3.3.).
Any resetting of future interim Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets (per 
Clause D.3.3.2).
The date any Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets reset since the last 
Verification Engagement were approved 
by the Board of the Issuer. 
Whether the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets align with the Sector Specific Criteria 
at the time of Certification. If not, the year by 
which they are expected to align. 
Related to that, whether Certification is Level 
1 (“Aligned”) or Level 2 (“Transition”) (per 
Clause D.3.1.1.3).
Whether alignment with the Climate 
Bonds Standard Sector Criteria has been 
achieved (per Clause D.3.1.1.3).
Any changes to the expected date the 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
are expected to align with the Climate 
Bonds Standard Sector Criteria (earlier 
or later) and any related change to 
the Level of Certification awarded (per 
Clause D.3.1.1.3).
D.3.2.1. Approval 
of the Delivery 
Strategy
The economic activities represented by the 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets to 
which the SLD instrument is linked that are 
covered by a Delivery Strategy.
In cases where some or all of the economic 
activities represented by the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets to which the 
SLD instrument is linked are not required to 
have a Delivery Strategy, whether and, if so, 
when a Delivery Strategy will be adopted.
The date of Board approval of the  
Delivery Strategy.
The date of Board approval of any changes 
to the Delivery Strategy reset since the 
previous Verification Engagement.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 65
D Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure 
thereafter
D.3.2.2.1. 
Foundations 
of the Delivery 
Strategy – Vision
A description of the Vision addressing the elements 
described in Clause D.3.2.2.1., and how this aligns with the 
delivery of the Climate Mitigation Performance Targets.
The extent, role and source of any carbon offsets, carbon 
removals and avoided emissions the Issuer anticipates 
employing to address any residual emissions over and 
above those required to meet the Climate Bonds Standard 
Sector Criteria. 
Any amendments to the 
Vision since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
D.3.2.2.2. 
Foundations 
of the Delivery 
Strategy – 
Strategic 
Narrative
A description of the Strategic Narrative addressing: 
• Current GHG emissions, in absolute emissions terms and 
any other metrics such as emissions intensity detailed 
in the Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria. Including 
information on the current sources and volume of 
GHG emissions and how and by whom this has been 
calculated and verified. 
• Key decarbonisation levers, their anticipated timing and 
emissions reduction impact.
• Assumed market trends, business growth, pricing and 
demand underpinning the transition strategy as well as 
regulatory and government policy assumptions.
• Significant challenges in delivering the strategy.
• Significant areas of uncertainty in estimation, 
assumptions, or outcomes. 
• How the Issuer embedded the strategy in its wider 
business model, highlighting key implications for 
products and services, resourcing and operational and 
capital expenditure, acquisitions, or divestments.
Any significant amendments 
to the Strategic Narrative 
since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
D.3.2.2.3. 
Foundations 
of the Delivery 
Strategy 
–Broader 
environmental 
and social 
alignment
A summary assessment of the negative environmental 
or social externalities related to delivering the Vision and 
Strategic Narrative. 
A summary description of the steps that the Issuer is 
taking, or planning to take, to mitigate those impacts.
A summary description of if, and if so how, the 
decarbonisation transition contributes to the Just Transition 
in the region in which the activities are carried out.
An update on the 
assessment of the 
negative environmental 
or social externalities 
related to main actions 
supporting the Delivery 
Strategy, and the steps 
that the Issuer is taking, 
or planning to take, to 
mitigate those impacts.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 66
Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure thereafter
D.3.2.3.1.  
Implementation 
Plans – Action 
Plan for scope 1 
& 2 emissions
A high-level description of the Action Plan for 
Scope 3 Emissions describing the objectives, 
scope of coverage and actions that will be taken 
to reduce value chain emissions necessary 
for delivery any related decarbonisation lever 
identified in the Strategic Narrative. 
The interim milestones and metrics that will 
enable assessment of progress in the delivery of 
the Action Plan for Scope 3 Emissions.  
Progress and track record against 
the interim milestones and metrics 
identified in the Action Plan for 
Scope 3 Emissions. 
Where any milestones or metrics 
falling due since the previous 
Verification Engagement have been 
not been met, the corrective actions 
being taken to address this within 12 
months (in line with Clause D.3.3.).
Any significant amendments to  
the Action Plan for Scope 3 
Emissions since the previous 
Verification Engagement. 
D.3.2.3.3. 
Implementation 
Plans – Finance 
Plan
A description of the financial implications of 
the planned changes to the Issuer’s business 
strategy, resource allocation and products and 
services arising from its climate mitigation 
transition, including relevant financial plans and 
investment where possible.
An explanation of how the above impacts  
have been integrated into general purpose 
financial reporting.
The financial metrics and targets that will be 
used to assess progress in the delivery of the 
Finance Plan and the current value of those 
metrics, and the methodologies by which those 
metrics will be calculated.  
Metrics that have significant estimation 
uncertainty, noting the sources and nature of 
the estimation uncertainties and the factors 
affecting the uncertainties.
Progress and track record against 
the interim financial milestones  
and metrics. 
Where any milestones or metrics 
falling due since the previous 
Verification Engagement have been 
not been met, the corrective actions 
being taken to address this within 12 
months (in line with Clause D.3.3.).
Any significant amendments to the 
Finance Plan since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
D.3.2.3.4. 
Implementation 
plans - Internal 
policy alignment
The key internal policies that need to be 
developed to execute the Delivery Strategy and 
achieve the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets, and a schedule for their development 
and implementation.
Progress against the schedule for 
developing and implementing the 
identified internal policies key to the 
execution of the Delivery Strategy 
and achievement of the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 67
D Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure 
thereafter
D.3.2.3.5. 
Implementation 
Plans – 
Sensitivity 
analysis
Key sensitivities and risks around the Delivery Strategy 
and the achievement of the Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets. 
The threshold or methodology for determining which 
sensitivities and risks have been identified as key, taking 
into account the materiality of cumulative or aggregated 
uncertainties or challenges.  
Quantification of the potential impact in terms of the 
likelihood, timing and cost of delivery of the Climate 
Mitigation Performance Targets. 
How these impacts are reflected in the Strategic Narrative, 
Action Plans and Finance Plan. 
Any significant changes to 
the results of the Sensitivity 
Analysis since the previous 
Verification Engagement.
How these changes have 
been addressed in the 
Vision, Strategic Narrative, 
Action Plans and/ or 
Finance Plan  
as appropriate. 
D.3.3.1. 
Governance 
- Board and 
senior executive 
responsibility
The named individual, committee or Board responsible for 
the Transition Plan.
The management structure in place for executing the 
Transition Plan.
How frequently the Board reviews the Transition Plan, and 
how frequently the Board will monitor and receive reports 
on progress against the Climate Mitigation Performance 
Targets and Delivery Strategy.
How the Issuer ensures adequate climate expertise (e.g., 
management expertise, provided resources, trainings, skill 
acquisition).
Any KPIs tied to Board, CEO or other senior executive 
compensation plans that are aligned with the 
organization’s climate goals, as described in the 
Transition Plan.
Any responsibility-related targets and progress against 
those targets.
Any changes to the named 
individual, committee, or 
Board responsible for the 
Transition Plan.
Any changes or additions to 
climate and/ or transition-
related KPIs tied to Board, 
CEO or other senior 
compensation plans.
Performance against the 
disclosed responsibility-
related metrics and targets.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 68
Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure 
thereafter
D.3.3.2. 
Governance - 
(Re)setting and 
monitoring 
the Climate 
Mitigation 
Performance 
Targets and 
Transition Plan
Information on internal controls that are in place to 
scrutinise the Transition Plan including any relevant 
internal assurance functions such as internal audit.
Stakeholder communication and feedback mechanisms, 
including whether the Transition Plan is scrutinised by 
shareholders (such as through an advisory vote at the 
entity’s Annual General Meeting, or resolution subject to 
shareholder approval).
Information on the process and internal controls for 
monitoring and tracking performance regarding the interim 
Climate Mitigation Performance Targets and milestones and 
targets identified in the Action Plans and Finance Plan. This 
includes information on any tracking and estimation tools, 
including but not limited to GHG performance tools, and 
any equivalents for Climate Mitigation Performance Targets 
that are not expressed in terms of GHG emissions.
Information on the process for regularly reviewing 
the Transition Plan to ensure material updates are 
incorporated and challenges are addressed. 
Commitment by the Issuer to review the Transition Plan at 
least every 5 years.
Date of the last and the next scheduled review.  
Any changes to the 
controls, tools and 
mechanisms disclosed  
in the previous  
Verification Engagement.
If the scheduled review 
fell due since the previous 
Verification Engagement, 
all reset Climate Mitigation 
Performance Targets 
and Delivery Strategy 
disclosure requirements 
detailed under Clauses 
D.3.1 and D.3.2. 
Any changes to the date of 
the next scheduled review.
D.3.3.3.  
Governance 
 - Correction  
of underper-
formance
n/a Any corrective actions 
planned to address any 
underperformance, with 
an explanation of how 
they will address that 
underperformance. 
D.4.1. Parent 
Group 
Commitments – 
Exclusions
Commitment by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group to zero future expansion of any of the 
activities detailed in Clause D.4.1.1. 
Statement by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group that no entity within the Parent Group has 
expanded any of the activities detailed in Clause D.4.1.1 
since 1 January 2023.
Statement from the Parent 
Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group that no entity 
within the Parent Group 
has expanded any of the 
activities detailed in Clause 
D.4.1.1 since the previous 
Verification Engagement. 
Commitment by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group that no entity within the Parent Group will or 
is planning to convert high carbon stock land as detailed 
in Clause D.4.1.2. 
Statement by the Parent Company on behalf of the 
Parent Group that no entity within the Parent Group has 
converted high carbon stock land (as detailed in Clause 
D.4.1.2) since 1 January 2020.
Statement by the Parent 
Company on behalf of 
the Parent Group that no 
entity within the Parent 
Group has converted 
high carbon stock land 
(as detailed in Clause 
D.4.1.2) since the previous 
Verification Engagement. 
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 69
D Relevant clause Pre-Certification disclosure Annual disclosure thereafter
4.2. Parent 
Group 
Commitments 
- Net zero 
commitment 
Commitment by the Parent Company to net 
zero emissions and the expected date for net 
zero – covering the entire Parent Group  
(per Clause D.4.2). 
Any changes to the net zero 
commitment for the Parent Group 
(per Clause D.4.2.).  
4.3. Parent 
Group 
Commitments – 
Transition Plan
A description of the Transition Plan outlining 
how the Parent Group will achieve net zero 
emissions (per Clause D.4.3). 
Any updates to the Transition  
Plan for the Parent Group  
(per Clause D.4.3)
If any part of the Parent Group 
practices any of the activities 
described under Clause D.4.1.1.,  
the expected timing to fully  
cease those activities.
INDEPENDENT OF ANY CLAUSES ABOVE
SLD instrument 
financial and 
structural 
characteristics
Potential change of bond financial and/or 
structural characteristics and the trigger events 
leading to such a change.
Potential extreme/ exceptional events such 
as M&A that could subsequently impact 
the restatement of a Climate Mitigation 
Performance Target.
Potential change of bond financial 
and/or structural characteristics  
and the trigger events leading to 
such a change
Potential extreme/ exceptional 
events such as M&A that could 
subsequently impact the 
restatement of a Climate Mitigation 
Performance Target.
D
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 70
ANNEX 1 - Types of Use of Proceeds 
Instruments that can be Certified 
There are various types of green financial instruments eligible for Certification under 
the Climate Bonds Standard. Use of Proceeds debt instruments that may be eligible for 
Certification under the Climate Bonds Standard version 4.1 include the following:
Bilateral Loan: commercial, multilateral and development banks offer credit lines to 
their corporate and institutional customers to finance specific green projects with set 
criteria and reporting requirements. The loans may or may not be public, and the  
terms vary considerably.
Certificate of Agribusiness Receivables (CAR): title backed by agribusiness credit, 
created by the Brazilian government to encourage the financing of the agricultural sector’s 
production chain. These instruments are issued by securitisation vehicles and sold to 
investors in capital markets to finance the purchase of the feedstock.
Commercial Paper: is unsecured, short-term debt commonly issued by companies or 
financial institutions to finance short-term liabilities. The proceeds mainly contribute to 
general corporate purposes and working capital financing. 
Convertible Bonds or Notes: Bonds or notes, either listed or unlisted, which have the 
right but not the obligation to convert into a specified number of ordinary shares (or other 
securities) under specified terms and conditions. If the bond or note was Certified when 
it was issued and then later converted to equity, its status as a Certified Instrument would 
end at the conversion point.
Covered Bond (Pfandbrief): a dual recourse bond which relies primarily on repayment 
from the issuer but also has access to a pool of assets (the cover pool). The cover pool 
often comprises mortgages, but other assets can be used as collateral too. For instance, the 
German Pfandbrief market includes Mortgages Pfandbrief, Public Pfandbrief, Ship and Aircraft 
Pfandbrief. In Luxembourg, it is possible to issue renewable infrastructure-covered bonds.
Debt Instruments issued by a Green Bond Fund: A Green Bond Fund is a fund which 
invests in green bonds based on a set of screens or criteria. Screens for the fund can 
include that the underlying projects and assets must meet the relevant Sector Criteria of 
the Climate Bonds Standard. The fund will likely issue securities such as units in a trust or 
use similarly structured arrangements to raise equity. 
Export Financing in Brazil: Advance on Export Exchange Contracts or Advance on Export 
Shipping Document Contracts
Export Letters of Credit: issued by banks, guaranteeing future payment (upon receipt of 
goods) to the exporter. These instruments are used in trade with developing countries and/
or importers of relatively weak credit quality. Certification requires the Approved Verifier to 
confirm that the UoP of the importer is aligned with the Climate Bonds Criteria.
Floating Rate Notes: notes that have a variable interest rate tied to a benchmark rate. 
Interest is usually paid quarterly, and the term is several months/years. FRNs are popular 
with US corporates with quarterly re-issuance.
Green Deposits: client funds held by a financial institution which are clearly identified and 
allocated to a portfolio of projects and assets which meet the relevant Sector Criteria of the 
Climate Bonds Standard. Green Deposits usually have a maturity of up to one year and are 
accepted by financial institutions. Depositors are often institutional investors. Non-banks 
(e.g., securitisation vehicles) may issue green units or notes.
Climate Bonds Standard   Version 4.1 
 71
Leases: bilateral contracts whereby the owner of the asset (the lessor) grants to another 
party (the lessee) the exclusive right to use the asset for an agreed period, for an agreed 
amount payable on a periodical basis (lease rentals) over the specified lease period.
Loan Facility: a credit line made available to borrowers to finance projects and assets 
which meet the relevant Sector Criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard. Loans can be 
unsecured (with available recourse to the obligors) or secured (non-recourse or limited 
recourse to obligors). 
Project Bond: a project bond, either listed or unlisted, for a single or multiple projects for 
which the investor has direct exposure to the risk of the projects with or without potential 
recourse to the issuer.
Repurchase Agreements (Repos): Repos enable short-term borrowing by banks or 
corporates, usually in government or investment-grade securities. The price difference is 
the implicit overnight interest rate. Repos are typically used to raise short-term capital.
Revenue Bond: a non-recourse-to-the-issuer debt obligation, either listed or unlisted, 
in which the credit exposure in the bond is to the pledged cash flows of the revenue 
streams, fees, taxes etc.
Revolving Credit Facilities: credit lines which may be drawn by the borrower and repaid 
on an ongoing basis with a short- or medium-term maturity.
Schuldschein: a traditional German floating or fixed debt instrument. Some features of a 
Schuldschein are similar to those of loans, while other features are more similar to bonds.
Securitised Bond: a bond, either listed or unlisted, collateralised by one or more specific 
projects or assets, including lease, loan and other revenue receivables asset Backed 
Securities (“ABS”), Mortgage-Backed Securities (“MBS”) including Agency MBS, Residential 
MBS, Commercial MBS, Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS) Collateralised 
Loan Obligations (“CLO”), Collateralised debt Obligations (“CDO”), Whole Business 
Securitisation (“WBS”) and other securitisation structures.
Standard Use of Proceeds Bond: a standard recourse-to-the-issuer debt obligation which 
is either listed or unlisted.
Sukuk: refers to various types of quasi-debt securities developed to meet the strictures 
of Islamic finance. One of the core principles underlying Islamic finance is avoiding the 
payment or collection of interest. Various  financial instruments have been created that 
serve the same purpose as bonds and other debt securities, but on which interest is not 
paid, and investors share in profit distributions.
Syndicated Loan: A loan from a number of different lenders acting together. The lenders 
form a syndicate, and the borrower borrows from the syndicate. Usually structured by one 
of several commercial banks or investment banks, it can also include ‘non-bank’ lenders 
such as debt funds, insurance companies, hedge funds or pension funds.
Trade Finance / Receivables Financing / Factoring : where a third-party lender 
buys outstanding accounts receivable at a discount. The trader’s/exporter’s accounts 
receivables effectively act as collateral. The key is whether the receivables, creditors or 
stocks relate to green assets.