Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
www.fiingroup.vn/fiinratings            DD MM YYYY  1 
 
 
Post-Issuance Verification Report  
Company X Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ 
Non-Financial Legal Entities   
 
Hanoi, [Date] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysts: 
XXXX; Primary Specialist; xxx@fiingroup.vn  
XXXX; Secondary Specialist; xxx@fiingroup.vn 
XXXX; Team member; xxx@fiingroup.vn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Disclaimer XXXX 
This document is prepared in both English and Vietnamese. The English translation is for reference only and the Vietnamese 
version will prevail in the event of any inconsistency between the English version and the Vietnamese version. 
 
 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
www.fiingroup.vn/fiinratings            DD MM YYYY  2 
 
1. About the Issuer 
Established in XX, after over XX years of development, XX Company has gradually 
demonstrated its capacity in the XX sector. The company has successfully operated XX power 
plants, including hydropower, solar, and wind power plants, with a total capacity of XX MWp in 
the southern region. Focused on sustainable development goals, XX continues to expand its 
renewable energy portfolio with a strategy that includes further wind and solar power plants, as 
well as other forms of energy such as waste-to-energy, and biomass power. 
XX is currently stimulating its investment in construction of renewable energy plants. [….]. The 
2023 Bonds finance construction of the facility (the “Project”). 
Project participants include: 
• [Main investors] 
• [Technical consultant] 
• [Bank] 
• Additional equity investors. 
[Any participants’ background of experience in green projects] 
2. Scope and Objectives 
A verification audit is a pivotal step in the Green Bond Issuer's pursuit of a Climate Bonds 
Certification Mark for the issuance of a Certified Green Bond. The primary objective of the 
verification process is to obtain an independent third party assessment subject to the Issuer's 
compliance with the Standard through a compliance audit of the procedures to effectively 
manage the proceeds of the Green Bond. The overarching aim is to ensure alignment with the 
objectives outlined in the Climate Bond Standard. 
Company X (“X” or “the issuer”) has engaged FiinRatings to compile a Pre-Issuance 
Verification Report for its Use of Proceeds Debt Instruments to be certified as Globally 
recognised, Paris-aligned Certification of Debt Instruments by the Climate Bonds Initiative 
(“CBI”). The verification process includes reviewing and verifying the conformance of the 
Company's green bond with the Wind Energy Criteria and Solar Energy Criteria outlined in the 
Climate Bonds Standard.  
The verification scope is delineated as an independent and objective limited assurance audit 
encompassing both the Bond and the Issuer. The Bond and the Issuer are reviewed against the 
criteria stated in the Climate Bond Standard and other relevant standards (if applicable). 
While the verification process does not provide consulting services, any communicated 
requests for clarification or suggested corrective actions aim to enhance the Issuer's capacity to 
align with the Climate Bond Standard. 
3. Climate Bonds Standards Criteria 
• Pre-issuance requirements under Climate Bond Standards Version 4.0: 
• Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria (Version 1.2) 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
www.fiingroup.vn/fiinratings            DD MM YYYY  3 
 
o Onshore wind energy generation facilities 
o Dedicated transmission infrastructure and support facilities (e.g. transformers, backbone, 
transmission terminus, grid connections, dedicated facilities for support vessels and 
vehicles, equipment storage, onshore assembly) 
o Dedicated operational production, manufacturing or distribution facilities for key 
components for onshore or offshore wind energy generation, such as wind turbines, 
platforms etc 
• Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria (Version 2.1) 
o Onshore solar electricity generation facilities 
o Wholly dedicated transmission infrastructure and other supporting infrastructure for 
onshore solar electricity generation facilities including inverters, transformers, energy 
storage systems and control systems. 
Relevant Climate Bonds Sector Criteria and Other Standards 
• Green Loan Principles (“GLP”) published by the Loan Markets Association, version Feb 
2023; 
• Green Bond Principles (“GBPs”) published by the International Capital Markets Association, 
version June 2021 (with June 2023 Appendix I); and 
• ASEAN Green Bond Standards (“GBS”) by the ASEAN Capital Market Forum, version 2018. 
4. Issuer’s Responsibility 
The issuer’s responsibility was to provide information and documentation on: 
• Green bond framework; 
• Details of the issued bond; 
• Selection proceess of nominated projects & assets; 
• Details of the Eligible Green Projects; 
• Process to determine technical aspects of projects and assets; 
• The management systems for internal processes and controls for Eligible Green Projects, 
including: tracking of proceeds, managing unallocated proceeds and Earmarking funds to 
Eligible Green Projects; and 
• Details of commitments for post-issuance reporting, including: allocation reporting, eligibility 
reporting, and impact reporting and frequency of periodic verification engagements. 
5. Verifier’s Responsibility 
The work undertaken as part of this engagement included conversations with relevant XX 
employees and review of relevant documentation to confirm the green bond’s conformance with 
the Climate Bonds Pre-Issuance Requirements for Use of Proceeds Debt Instruments, which 
include: 
• Conformance of XX’s green bond framework with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0; 
• Conformance with the Technical Criteria on Wind Energy Criteria (Version 1.2) and Solar 
Energy Criteria (Version 2.1); 
• Conformance with the process for Evaluation and Selection of projects and assets; 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
www.fiingroup.vn/fiinratings            DD MM YYYY  4 
 
• Conformance with the process for Management of Proceeds; and 
• Conformance with Post-Issuance Reporting. 
 
6. Verification Approach 
FiinRatings was tasked with performing a Limited Assurance engagement to assess whether 
the xx Bonds comply with the requirements outlined in the Climate Bonds Standard. Our Limited 
Assurance procedures were conducted in adherence to the Climate Bonds Standard (Version 
4.0) and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), 
specifically focusing on Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information. Additional details pertaining to this engagement, as well as the respective 
responsibilities of the Verifier and Issuer, and considerations related to Independence and 
Quality Control as metioned below. 
7. Independence And Quality Control 
FiinRatings, a credit rating agency, conducted the verification of XX's green bond, issued to 
fund Nominated Projects. FiinRatings furnished an independent opinion on the green bond's 
compliance with the Pre-Issuance requirement of the Climate Bonds Standard (Version 4.0), 
Wind Energy Criteria (Version 1.2) and Solar Energy Criteria (Version 2.1) of the Climate Bonds 
Standard. 
It is important to note that FiinRatings based its assessment on the information and facts 
provided by XX. FiinRatings disclaims responsibility if any aspect of the Nominated Projects, 
including estimates, findings, opinions, or conclusions, is found to be incorrect. Consequently, 
FiinRatings shall not be held liable for inaccuracies or incompleteness in the information or data 
provided by XX management, which served as the foundation for this assessment. 
FiinRatings is dedicated to maintaining the highest quality and rigor throughout its assessment 
process.  
8. Fiinratings’s Business Practices (Optional) 
FiinRatings has conducted this verification in strict compliance with the FiinRatings Code of 
Ethics, which lays out detailed requirements for integrity, transparency, and objectivity for the 
FiinRatings business and team members. It is designed to ensure that the verification is 
conducted independently and without any conflicts of interest with other parts of the FiinGroup. 
9. Restriction on Distribution and Use of Report 
This Verification Report for Climate Bonds Certification including all documentation provided 
alongside is intended for the use of Company X and the Climate Bonds Standard Board. The 
present document may be published by Company X, CBI and FiinRatings. CBI and FiinRatings 
agree to publish the report with the consent of Company X. 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
www.fiingroup.vn/fiinratings            DD MM YYYY  5 
 
10. Verification Statement 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects the Issuer’s Green 
Private Placement is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance 
Requirements for the use of proceeds. 
 
  
 
 
FIINRATINGS PROJECT TEAM 
 
Hanoi, mm/dd/yy 
 
[Signature Here] 
 
 
(Head of Green Bond Service) 
 
 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
DISCLAIMER 
 
ABOUT FIINRATINGS 
FiinRatings Joint Stock Company, a member of FiinGroup and a technical collaboration partner 
with S&P Global Ratings, is a local licensed Credit Rating Agency in Vietnam. FiinRatings 
provides credit ratings and related services to issuers, creditors and investors in Vietnam credit 
market. FiinRatings is also Vietnam first green bonds approved verifier, in accordance with the 
green bond international standard by the Climate Bonds Initiative. For more information, please 
visit https://www.fiinratings.vn. 
Contact us 
Tel: (84-24) 3562 6962 
Email: support.fiinratings@fiingroup.vn 
 
 
 
CONTACT 
Nguyen Tung Anh 
Head of Sustainable Finance Services 
Address: FiinRatings, Level 10, Peakview Tower, 36 Hoang Cau St., 
O Cho Dua Ward, Dong Da Dist., Hanoi 
Tel: +84 (0) 704 681 981  
Copyright © 2023 …. This document and all of the information contained in it is the property 
of FiinRatings. The Information may not be reproduced or re-disseminated in whole or in part 
without the prior written permission of FiinRatings. While we exercise due care in compiling 
this document, we assume no liability with respect to the consequences of relying on this 
information for investment or other purposes. FiinRatings makes no express or implied 
warranties or representations with respect to the information. 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
ANNEXES 
Annex 1: Detailed Findings 
Annex 2: Detailed Findings Solar Power 
Annex 3: Detailed Findings Wind Power (onshore) 
Annex 4: Detailed Findings Wind Power (offshore) 
Annex 5: Alignment the issuer’s selected sectors with Vietnam Taxonomy 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
ANNEX 1: DETAILED FINDINGS 
4. NOMINATED PROJECTS & ASSETS: 
 
Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
4.1 
Decision-making process to determine  
the continuing eligibility of nominated 
projects and assets 
  
4.2 
Conformance with the Bond’s 
documented objectives and 
requirements of Part B of the CBI 
Standard 
  
4.3 No double nomination of projects and 
assets 
  
 
5. USE OF PROCEEDS 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
5.1 Allocation of net proceeds to nominated  
projects and assets. 
  
5.2 Allocation of funds within 24 months of 
issuance of the bond 
  
5.3 Share of financing and refinancing.   
5.4 Tracking of proceeds   
5.5 
Net proceeds of the loan and 
investment to nominated projects and  
assets 
  
 
6. NON-CONTAMINATION OF PROCEEDS 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
6.1 Tracking of proceeds   
6.2 Non-contamination  
of proceeds 
  
6.3 Cases of force majeure   
 
7. CONFIDENTIALITY 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
7.1 Description of the  
projects   
7.2 Disclosure of information to the market   
 
8. REPORTING 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
8.1 Description of the reporting   
 
9. CLIMATE BOND TAXONOMY 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
9.1 Matching of Climate Bond category   
 
10. TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
10.1 Sector-specific  
eligibility criteria 
  
10.2 Bonds covering  
several sector-specific criteria 
  
 
11. PROJECT HOLDING 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
11.1 
Holding of assets with a fair market 
value at least of the original amount at 
time of issuance 
  
 
12. PROJECT HOLDING 
 Requirements Factual 
findings 
Analysis against 
requirements 
12.1 Description of the process and timeline 
of distribution of proceeds 
  
12.2 Description of process regarding 
unallocated proceeds after 24 months 
  
 
13. EARMARKING 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
 Requirements Factual findings Analysis against 
requirements 
13.1 Description of internal earmarking 
process 
  
 
List of supporting elements provided by the Issuer: (examples) 
• Supporting documents provided for Post-issuance verification and confirmed by the 
Issuer: 
o Answers to the Verifier’s Post-Issuance questionnaire 
o Debentures’ Term sheet (dated August xx, 2023) 
o FiinRatings’ pre-issuance Report of Factual Findings (dated August xx, 2023) 
o Issuers 20xx Sustainability Report
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
ANNEX 2: DETAILED FINDINGS OF SOLAR POWER 
 The Green Bond Asset Pool complies with the Solar Power criteria of the 
Climate Bonds Initiative 
The issuer has confirmed that the solar farms do not include any fossil fuel 
generation and therefore they all are eligible for Climate Bonds Certification. 
 
ANNEX 3: DETAILED FINDINGS ON WIND POWER (ONSHORE) 
 The Green Bond Asset Pool complies with the Wind Power criteria of the 
Climate Bonds Initiative 
All onshore wind farms are eligible for the Climate Bonds Initiative. 
 
 
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
ANNEX 4: DETAILED FINDINGS WIND POWER (OFFSHORE) 
 Mitigation Component 
 Requirement Factual findings Assessment 
1.1. The asset is 100% dedicated to 
renewable energy 
  
2.1. 
Any fossil fuel back up in place is 
limited to:  
Powering monitoring, operating and 
maintenance equipment in the event 
of no renewable power in the system / 
Powering resilience or protection 
measures in the event of no 
renewable power in the system / 
Restart capability 
  
 
 Adaptation and Resilience Component 
 Requirement Factual findings Assessment 
1.1. 
Processes are in place to assess key 
risks to the assets from a changing 
climate and its impact on marine 
conditions 
  
2.1. 
Processes are in place to assess 
improvements and impacts the assets 
have on the resilience of other 
stakeholders 
  
3.1. 
An adaptation plan has been 
designed and is being implemented to 
address the risks identified in the 
assessments outlined above 
  
3.2. 
Inspections are carried out regularly 
and there is a maintenance regime for 
future inspections. 
  
4.1. Issuer is involved in stakeholder 
engagement and collaboration 
  
5.1. 
The assets or projects do not put at 
risk or endangered species or habitat 
or unduly impact ecosystem services. 
Where there are possible negative 
impacts to habitats, mitigation 
measures are implemented to offset 
the negative impacts 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
5.2. 
Waste is responsibly dealt with, 
including appropriate disposal of 
construction waste and oil-based 
lubricants, including recycling options 
where possible 
  
5.3. 
The issuer has recognized and listed 
the potential risks for accidental site 
contamination either from leakage of 
hydraulic fluid or from 
wreckage/debris on the sea bed. 
  
5.4. 
Decommissioning of the plant is 
planned in a way that considers 
environmental impacts 
  
5.5. 
Issuer has plans and processes in 
place to effectively manage and 
minimize conflict with other users of 
marine and coastal place. 
  
 
ANNEX 5: ALIGNMENT THE ISSUER’S SELECTED SECTORS WITH 
VIETNAM TAXONOMY 
 Sector Cbi eligibility 
criteria 
Vietnam taxonomy 
eligibility criteria 
1. Solar energy   
1.1. 
Onshore solar electricity generation 
facilities 
- Wholly dedicated transmission 
infrastructure, grid connections 
and other supporting 
infrastructure for onshore solar 
electricity generation facilities 
including inverters, 
transformers, energy storage 
systems and control systems. 
- Onshore solar thermal facilities 
such as solar hot water 
systems. 
- Onshore solar heat/cool and 
power cogeneration facilities 
A minimum of 85% of 
electricity generated 
from solar energy 
resources 
TBC 
1.2. 
Dedicated operational production, 
manufacturing or distribution facilities 
for key components, such as solar 
panels, inverters etc. 
Automatically eligible TBC 
2. Wind energy   
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
2.1. Issuer is involved in stakeholder 
engagement and collaboration   
2.2. …   
 
ANNEX 1: DETAILED OVERVIEW OF NOMINATED PROJECTS AND 
ASSETS 
Project Description 
xxx  
xxx  
xxx  
 
ANNEX 2: CONFORMANCE TO THE PRE-ISSUANCE REQUIREMENTS 
FOR USE OF PROCEEDS: 
1. USE OF PROCEEDS 
 
Requirement 
Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Rationale 
1.1 The Net Proceeds of the debt 
instrument is allocated to the Nominated 
projects and assets. 
  
1.2 All Nominated projects and assets must 
meet the documented objectives of 
the debt instrument and must be in 
conformance with the Sector Eligibility 
Criteria requirements of the Standard. 
  
1.3 The Issuer has allocated the Net 
Proceeds to the Nominated projects and 
assets within 24 months of issuance of 
the debt instrument. The 24-month 
deadline can be extended by the 
Climate Bonds Standard Secretariat for 
up to 5 years (and exceptionally 
up to 10 years if duly justified by the 
nature of the projects to be financed). 
An extension will be granted at the 
discretion of the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat, provided the 
justification for it can be substantiated 
by the Issuer and confirmed by the 
Approved Verifier. At the end of the 
allocation period specified in the 
Certification, the Issuer must provide a 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
Post-Issuance Verification Report by an 
Approved Verifier. The Issuer must 
provide annual Post-Issuance 
Verification Reports until the Approved 
Verifier confirms that 100% of the 
proceeds have been allocated. 
1.4 Net proceeds may be reallocated to 
other Nominated projects and assets at 
any time while the debt instrument 
remains outstanding, provided the 
Approved Verifier has verified such 
assets. 
  
1.5 Nominated projects and assets must not 
be nominated to other Certified debt 
Instruments, unless the Issuer 
demonstrates that different Certified 
Climate Bonds are funding distinct 
portions of the Nominated projects and 
assets, or the Certified debt Instrument 
is being refinanced via another Certified 
debt Instrument. 
  
1.6 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds 
of the debt instrument are used for 
refinancing, the Issuer must track the 
respective shares of the Net Proceeds 
used for financing and refinancing and 
identify which Nominated projects and 
assets may be refinanced. This may 
also include the expected look-back 
period for refinanced Nominated 
projects and assets which should reflect 
the functional lifetime of the projects or 
assets for delivering the stated climate 
mitigation/ adaptation/ resilience 
benefits. The remaining functional 
lifetime of the projects or assets must 
be equal to or greater than the term of 
the instrument being certified. The Net 
Proceeds may only be used for 
refinancing operating expenditures that 
were incurred within three years prior to 
the issuance of the Certified Debt 
Instrument. 
  
1.7 Net Proceeds of the debt instrument is 
tracked following a formal internal 
process which is documented in 
accordance with Clause A.3.3 of the 
Standard. 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
1.8 The Net Proceeds of the debt 
instrument must be no greater than the 
Issuer’s total Investment Exposure or 
debt obligation to the Nominated 
projects and assets or the relevant 
proportion of the total Market Value of 
the Nominated projects and assets 
which are owned or financed by the 
Issuer. When satisfying this clause, the 
Issuer may choose either (i) the 
Investment Exposure or debt obligation 
to the Nominated projects and assets, 
or (ii) their Market Value. 
  
1.9 Additional Nominated projects and 
assets may be added to, or used to 
substitute or replenish, the portfolio of 
Nominated projects and assets as long 
as the additional Nominated projects 
and assets are eligible under the 
Standard and are consistent with the 
debt instrument’s objectives. Where 
additional Nominated projects and 
assets are covered by Sector Criteria 
which were not included in the scope of 
either the Pre-Issuance Verification or 
the Post-Issuance Verification 
Engagements, the Issuer must engage 
an Approved Verifier to provide a 
Verification Report covering at least the 
conformance of the additional 
Nominated projects and assets with the 
relevant Sector Criteria. 
  
 
2. PROCESS FOR EVALUATION AND SELECTION OF PROJECTS AND 
ASSETS 
 Requirement 
Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Rationale 
 Decision-making process to determine 
eligibility of nominated projects & 
assets, including: 
  
2.1 Statement on the climate-related 
objectives of the Bond. 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
2.2 Positioning of climate related objectives 
of the Bond in the context of the 
Issuer’s overarching environmental 
objectives, strategy, policy and/or 
processes. 
  
2.3 Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond.   
2.4 Process to determine whether the 
Nominated projects and assets meet 
the sector eligibility requirements 
specified of the Standard. 
  
2.5 Other information provided by the 
Issuer as described in Clause A.2.2 of 
the Standard. 
  
 
3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS 
 Requirement 
Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Rationale 
 Systems, policies and processes to be 
used for management of the Net 
Proceeds are documented by the 
Issuer and disclosed to the Verifier, and 
include arrangements for the following 
activities: 
  
3.1. The Net Proceeds of the debt 
instrument must be credited to a sub-
account, moved to a sub-portfolio, or 
otherwise identified by the Issuer in an 
appropriate manner and documented. 
  
3.2. The debt instrument Issuer maintain an 
earmarking process or ringfence the 
proceeds per Clause A.2.3 of the 
Standard to manage and account for 
the allocation of Net Proceeds to the 
Nominated projects and assets. 
  
3.3. The balance of the unallocated Net 
Proceeds must be: 
  
3.3.1 i. Held in temporary investment 
instruments that are cash, money-
market instruments or other liquid, 
short-term cash equivalent 
instruments within a Treasury 
function; and/or 
  
3.3.2. ii. Held in temporary investment 
instruments that do not relate to 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
greenhouse gas intensive projects or 
any projects which are inconsistent 
with the delivery of a low carbon and 
climate resilient economy; and/or 
3.3.3. iii. Applied to temporarily reduce the 
indebtedness of a revolving nature 
before being redrawn for 
investments in or disbursements to 
Nominated projects and assets. 
  
 
4. POST-ISSUANCE REPORTING 
 Requirement 
Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Rationale 
4.1. The Issuer submit annual Update Reports 
which is verified by an Approved Verifier 
within 12 to 24 months from the date of 
issuance of the debt instrument until its 
maturity. 
  
4.2. The Update Report is provided on a timely 
basis in case of material developments. 
Material developments include, but are not 
limited to, early repayment, change of 
control or acquisition, change of name, 
changes to the eligibility of assets and 
projects and any material amendments to 
transaction documents, including any 
winding-up process or enforcement. 
  
4.3. Issuers are encouraged to provide their 
Update Reports through existing bond 
market reporting channels, such as the US 
Municipality sector’s Electronic Municipal 
Market Access (EMMA) website. 
  
4.4. An Update Report may contain three types 
of reporting: allocation reporting, 
eligibility reporting, and impact reporting: 
  
4.4.1. Allocation reporting confirms the allocation 
of bond proceeds to eligible projects and 
assets and is mandatory for all Certified 
debt instruments. 
  
4.4.2. Eligibility reporting confirms the 
characteristics or performance of projects 
and assets to demonstrate their eligibility 
under the relevant Sector Criteria and is 
mandatory for all Certified debt 
instruments. 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
4.4.3. Impact reporting discloses the metrics or 
indicators which reflect the expected or 
actual impact of eligible projects and 
assets and is encouraged for all Certified 
debt instruments. 
  
4.5 The three different types of reporting can be 
included in a single Update Report, which 
must be provided to the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat and made publicly 
available or provided annually to the 
bondholders/lenders for as long as the debt 
instrument remains outstanding. 
  
4.6. The timing of reporting can be aligned with 
the Issuer’s regular reporting schedule and 
does not need to follow the anniversary of 
the Certification or issuance of the Bond. 
  
4.7. The Allocation Reporting must include, 
without limitation: 
  
4.7.1. Confirmation that the Bonds issued under 
the Issuer’s Green Finance Framework are 
aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard 
  
4.7.2. Statement on the climate-related objectives 
of the Bond. 
  
4.7.3. The list of Nominated projects and assets 
to which Net Proceeds have been 
allocated (or re-allocated). 
  
4.7.4. The amounts allocated to the Nominated 
projects and assets. 
  
4.7.5. An estimate of the respective shares of the 
Net Proceeds used for financing and 
refinancing and which Nominated projects 
and assets have been refinanced. This 
may also include the expected look-back 
period for refinancing Nominated projects 
and assets. 
  
4.7.6. The geographical distribution of the 
Nominated projects and assets. 
  
    
4.8. Requirements in the Eligibility Reporting 
without limitation: 
  
4.8.1 Confirmation that the Nominated projects 
and assets continue to meet the relevant 
eligibility requirements applicable when 
obtaining the Certification. 
  
4.8.2. Information on the environmental 
characteristics or performance of 
Nominated projects and assets, which is 
prescribed by the relevant Sector Criteria. 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
4.9. If a bond exhibits very stable allocation of 
proceeds and does not need to track any 
performance indicators to maintain the 
eligibility of the projects and assets (such as 
financing for a single large-scale solar 
facility), the annual Update Report can be 
concise and restate the information from 
previous reports. 
  
4.10. In case of any limits on the detail that can be 
made available in the Update 
Report about specific Nominated projects 
and assets (as per Clause A.2.4.3), 
information disclosed must include the 
investment areas into which the Nominated 
projects and assets fall and an explanation 
of why detail on Nominated projects and 
assets is limited. 
  
4.11. The impact reporting shall, without limitation:   
4.11.1. Provide the expected or actual outcomes 
or impacts of the Nominated projects and 
assets concerning the climate-related 
objectives of the Bond. 
  
4.11.2. Use qualitative performance indicators 
and, where feasible, quantitative 
performance measures of the outcomes or 
impacts of the Nominated projects and 
assets for the climate-related objectives of 
the Bond. 
  
4.11.3. Provide the methods and the key 
underlying assumptions for the calculation 
of the performance indicators and metrics. 
  
4.12. Verification Reports or other 
relevant material which supports the Update 
Report are all publicized. 
  
 
Company XXX Use of Proceeds/ Assets/ Non-Financial Legal 
Entities   
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
 
   
 
ANNEX 3: DETAILED FINDINGS OF SOLAR POWER 
 The Green Bond Asset Pool complies with the Solar Power criteria of the 
Climate Bonds Initiative 
The issuer has confirmed that the solar farms do not include any fossil fuel 
generation and therefore they all are eligible for Climate Bonds Certification. 
 
ANNEX 4: DETAILED FINDINGS ON WIND POWER (ONSHORE) 
 The Green Bond Asset Pool complies with the Wind Power criteria of the 
Climate Bonds Initiative 
All onshore wind farms are eligible for the Climate Bonds Initiative.