www.iss -corporate. com  
© 202 4 | Institutional Shareholder Services and/or its affiliates  
  
 
 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E 
V E R I F I C A T I O N  R E P O R T  F O R  
C L I M A T E B O N D I N I T I A T I V E  
U S E  O F  P R O C E E D S  
C E R T I F I C A T I O N:  
 
 
Verification Report for Post -Issuance Certification  
for the Green Bond s Issued by EnBW  
 
 
  

P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  2  o f  34  
C O N T E N T S  
 
 
SCOPE OF WORK ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............  3 
CRITERIA ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  3 
ISSUER’S RESPONSIBILITY ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  3 
ISS-CORPORATE’S VERIFICATION PROCESS ................................ ................................ .............................  3 
ISS-CORPORATE’S BUSINESS PRACTICES ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 4 
RESTRICTION ON DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF REPORT ................................ ................................ ....... 4 
OPINION ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  4 
Disclaimer ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  5 
About ISS-Corporate ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........ 5 
ANNEXES ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  6 
ANNEX 1: DETAILED FINDINGS ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  7 
5. USE OF PROCEEDS ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  7 
6. PROCESS FOR EVALUATION AND SELECTION OF PROJECTS AND ASSETS ......................  9 
7. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 10 
8. REPORTING ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .......... 11 
9. CLIMATE BOND TAXONOMY................................ ................................ ................................ .......... 12 
10. TECHNICAL CRITERIA ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  12 
ANNEX 2: DETAILED FINDINGS LOW CARBON TRANSPORT (ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING 
STATIONS)................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........................  13 
ANNEX 3: DETAILED FINDINGS SOLAR POWER ................................ ................................ .....................  13 
ANNEX 4: DETAILED FINDINGS WIND POWER (ONSHORE WIND) ................................ .................  14 
ANNEX 5: DETAILED FINDINGS MARINE RENEWABLE ENERGY (OFFSHORE WIND) .................  15 
Disclosure Component ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  15 
Mitigation Component ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  19 
Adaptation and Resilience Component ................................ ................................ ................................  20 
ANNEX 6: DETAILED FINDINGS GRID AND STORAGE INFRASTRUCTURE ................................ ..... 27 
Adaptation and Resilience Component ................................ ................................ ................................  27 
 
  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  3  o f  34  
SCOPE OF WORK  
EnBW commissioned ISS -Corporate to compile a Verifi cation Report for Post -Issuance 
Certification of its Green Bond s by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI). The Climate Bonds 
Certification process includes verifying whether the provisions of the CBI’s Climate Bonds 
Standard are met and obtaining evidence to support the verification. 
CRITERIA  
Relevant CBI standards for this Climate Bonds Certification: 
▪ Climate Bonds Standard V3.0 
▪ Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria (Version 1.2) 
▪ Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria (Version 2.1) 
▪ Marine Renewable Energy Criteria (Version 1.2) 
▪ Low Carbon Transport Criteria (Version 2) 
▪ Electrical Grids and Storage Eligibility Criteria (March 2022) 
ISSUER’S RESPONSIBILITY  
EnBW’s responsibility was to provide information and documentation on:  
▪ Selection of nominated projects and assets 
▪ Technical aspects of projects and assets 
▪ Internal processes and controls 
▪ Proposed reporting 
ISS-CORPORATE ’S VERIFICATION PROCESS  
Since 2014, ISS Group, which ISS-Corporate is part of, has built up a reputation as a highly  
reputed thought leader in the green and social bond market and has become one of the first 
CBI-approved verifiers.  
This independent P ost-Issuance Verification of the Green Bond s (XS2558395278, 
XS2558395351) issued by EnBW has been conducted based on the Climate Bonds Standard 
V3.0, and limited assurance procedures based on common market practices and voluntary 
guidelines, in accordance with relevant assurance standards such as the International Standard 
on Assurance Engagements, other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information 
(ISAE 3000). 
The approach to assess whether the Issuer’s green bonds meet the criteria of the Climate 
Bonds Standard V3.0. is as follows: 
▪ The Issuer provided an overview over the assets to be included in the green bond asset 
pool and the relevant processes and documentation regarding the proceeds (e.g., use 
of proceeds, management of proceeds). 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  4  o f  34  
▪ The Issuer filled in a questionnaire that covers all criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard 
V3.0. 
▪ The Issuer provided background documents that elaborate further on the information 
mentioned in the questionnaire. 
▪ An assessment of the CBI criteria has been carried out using the questionnaire and 
background documents. In case any answers were unclear, the Issuer has been 
contacted for more details and clarification. 
The engagement with EnBW took place from November to December 2024. 
ISS-CORPORATE’S  BUSINESS PRACTICES  
ISS-Corporate has conducted this verification in strict compliance with the ISS Group Code of 
Ethics, which lays out detailed requirements in integrity, transparency , professional 
competence and due care, professional behavior and objectivity for the ISS business and team 
members. It is designed to ensure that the verification is conducted independently and without 
any conflicts of interest with other parts of the ISS Group. 
RESTRICTION ON DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF 
REPORT  
This Verification Report for Climate Bonds Certification, including all documentation provided 
alongside, is intended for the use of EnBW and the Climate Bonds Standard Board. The present 
document may be published by EnBW, CBI and ISS-Corporate. The CBI and ISS-Corporate 
agree to publish the report with the consent of EnBW. 
OPINION  
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, nothing has 
come to our attention , which causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the Issuer’s 
November 2022 Green Bond s (ISIN: XS2558395351 and ISIN: XS2558395278) are not in 
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s post-issuance requirements. 
 
 
M A R I J A  K R A M E R 
ISS Corporate Solutions Business 
Rockville, MD, 20 December 2024  
  

P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  5  o f  34  
Disclaimer  
Copyright © 2024 Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (“ISS”). This document and all of the 
information contained in it is the property of ISS and/or its subsidiaries. The Information may 
not be reproduced or redisseminated in whole or in part without the prior written permission 
of ISS. While we exercise due care in compiling this document, we assume no liability with 
respect to the consequences of relying on this information for investment or other purposes. 
ISS makes no express or implied warranties or representations with respect to the information. 
About ISS-Corporate  
Companies turn to ISS -Corporate for expertise in designing and managing governance, 
compensation, sustainability and cyber risk programs that align with company goals, reduce 
risk and manage the needs of a diverse shareholder base by delivering best-in-class data, tools 
and advisory services. 
ISS-Corporate assesses alignment with external principles (e.g. the Green/Social Bond 
Principles), analyzes the sustainability quality of the assets and review s the sustainability 
performance of the issuer itself. Following these three steps, we draw up an independent SPO 
so that investors are as well -informed as possible about the quality of the bond/loan from a 
sustainability perspective. 
Learn more: https://www.iss-corporate.com/solutions/sustainable-finance/. 
 
For more information on SPO services, please contact: SPOsales@iss-corporate.com. 
 
Project team 
Project lead 
Orane Busto 
Associate 
Sustainable Finance Research 
Project support 
Clara Schouler 
Analyst 
Sustainable Finance Research 
Project supervision 
Marie-Bénédicte Beaudoin 
Associate Director 
Head of Sustainable Finance 
Research 
Project support 
João Ferreira 
Associate 
Sustainable Finance Research 
  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  6  o f  34  
ANNEX ES 
Annex 1: Detailed Findings 
Annex 2: Detailed Findings Low Carbon Transport (electric vehicle charging stations) 
Annex 3: Detailed Findings Solar Power 
Annex 4: Detailed Finding Wind Power (onshore) 
Annex 5: Detailed Findings Wind Power (offshore) 
Annex 6: Detailed Findings Grid and Storage Infrastructure 
  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  7  o f  34  
ANNEX 1: DETAILED FINDINGS  
5.  USE OF PROCEEDS  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
5.1 
Net proceeds 
allocation to 
nominated 
projects  
The full amount of the net proceeds has been 
allocated to nominated eligible assets.  
EUR 497.125 million has been allocated  to 
renewable energy  (solar, wind 
onshore/offshore) and electric vehicle 
charging infrastructure projects for the green 
bond with  a four-year maturity (ISIN: 
XS2558395351).  
EUR 498.75 million has been allocated to grid 
and infrastructure projects for the  green 
bond with a seven-year maturity  (ISIN: 
XS2558395278).  
✓ 
5.2 
Conformance 
with the bond’s 
documented 
objectives and 
requirements of 
Part C of the 
Climate Bonds 
Standard 
The full amount of the net proceeds has been 
used to finance and/or refinance onshore 
and offshore wind projects, solar  
(photovoltaics) projects, electricity and grid 
storage, and electric vehicle charging 
infrastructure.  
Each project financed meet the Climate 
Bonds Standard and is in conformance with 
Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
✓ 
5.3 
Allocation of 
proceeds within 
24 months of 
issuance of the 
bond 
The full amount of the net proceeds was 
allocated a year after the issuance.  The 
proceeds have been allocated to projects 
that were nominated in the 2022 pre-
issuance verification process as well  as to 
projects that have been verified by the CBI as 
part of further pre -issuance verification 
processes prior to and after 2022 where 
allocation was necessary due to business 
developments.  
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  8  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
5.4 
No double 
nomination of 
projects and 
assets 
The projects and assets (or portions of those) 
financed and refinanced by the proceeds of 
these bonds have not been nominated for 
other certified debt instruments.  
✓ 
5.5 Share of financing 
vs. refinancing  
The proceeds have been allocated according 
to the respective projects’ eligible CapEx. For 
the green bond s issued in November 2022, 
refinancing accounts for around 9% on the 
four-year maturity bond while the seven-year 
maturity bond  proceeds are used 100% for 
refinancing, accounting for a lookback period 
of 36 months as stated in EnBW’s Green 
Financing Framework.  
✓ 
5.6 Tracking of 
proceeds 
The green bond proceeds were managed by 
EnBW using a portfolio approach. EnBW’s 
internal accounting system  (green finance 
register) allows for tracking and controlling at 
any point in time the amount of funds that 
have been allocated to an individual project.  
✓ 
5.7 
Size of net 
proceeds vs. 
investment 
exposure to 
nominated 
projects and 
assets  
EnBW confirms that  net proceeds of the 
bonds are no greater than the investment to 
the nominated projects/assets. Net proceeds 
of the issuance have been EUR 497.125  
million for the four-year bond  and EUR 
498.75 million for the seven-year bond.  
✓ 
5.8 
Additional 
projects and 
assets  
Additional projects or assets have been 
added to the nominated list. EnBW confirms 
that such added projects or assets had been 
previously assessed in other pre-issuance 
verification engagements that occurred prior 
to or after the issuance of the bond. EnBW 
also confirms that such projects or assets (or 
portions of those ) were not previously 
funded under other certified debt 
instruments. 
✓ 
 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  9  o f  34  
6.  PROCESS FOR EVALUATION AND SELECTION OF PROJECTS 
AND  ASSETS  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
6.1 
Documented and 
maintained a 
decision-making 
process, including: 
A statement on the 
climate-related 
objectives of the bond 
Climate-related 
objectives of the bond 
in the context of the 
Issuer’s strategy 
Issuer’s rationale for 
issuance the bond 
Process determining 
that the 
projects/assets meet 
the eligibility criteria 
EnBW confirms that it has  a Green 
Financing Committee and a selection 
process to ensure only eligible and 
appropriate projects and assets are 
included for nomination and financing 
by the proceeds. 
An appropriate statement has been 
included in EnBW’s Green Financing 
Framework, which incorporates all the 
necessary elements. 
EnBW’s Green Financing Framework 
focuses on supporting sustainability on 
both its asset and liabilit y sides. The 
bonds were issued to fund the 
implementation of EnBW’s 2025 
strategy, which encompasses projects  
to support the  renewable energy and 
mobility transition in Germany. By 2025, 
EnBW plans to add 1.5 -2.5 GW of 
renewable energy capacity and expand 
its electric vehicle quick charging 
network to 2,500 locations, aligning 
with its sustainability strateg y. The 
company’s renewable energy capacity 
currently accounts for about 47% of its 
12.23 GW total, and it aims to increase 
this share to 75%-80% by 2030.  
In addition, aligned with the Paris 
Agreement, EnBW has set near -term 
science-based targets, verified by the 
Science Based Targets initiative. Key 
milestones in its climate transition plan 
include reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  10  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
emissions by 50% by 2027 and 70% by 
2030 (from a 2018 baseline). 
 
7.  MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
7.1 
Net proceeds are 
credited to a 
subaccount and 
documented 
EnBW confirms that it has implemented 
an internal accounting system that 
allows it to track and control at any 
point in time the amount of funds that 
have been allocated to an individual 
project. 
✓ 
7.2 Net proceeds are 
earmarked 
EnBW confirms that it has  set up a 
register and put internal systems in 
place to track the outstanding proceeds 
of green financing instruments 
internally. Until full allocation, proceeds 
will be held in any form of cash, bank 
deposit or other form of available 
current financial assets. However, the 
full amount of the net proceeds was 
allocated immediately after issuance  
and EnBW confirms that none of the 
proceeds have been used for 
temporary investments.  
✓ 
7.3 Unallocated proceeds 
The full amount of the net proceeds 
was allocated immediately after 
issuance. 
- 
 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  11  o f  34  
8.  REPORTING  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
8.1 
Timing and 
availability of 
update reports 
EnBW publishes both impact and allocation 
reporting annually on its website. ✓ 
8.2 
Allocation 
report, eligibility 
report, impact 
report 
EnBW published details on both the 
allocation and impact of the projects 
financed by these bonds. 
✓ 
8.3 Allocation 
reporting 
The allocation reporting details are available 
on EnBW’s website. ✓ 
8.4 Eligibility 
reporting 
The eligibility details are available  on 
EnBW’s website , in both the impact and 
allocation report as well as in the verification 
report. 
✓ 
8.5 Reasons for 
confidentiality 
Public disclosure of the nominated projects 
and assets is available on the website. ✓ 
8.6 Impact reporting The impact reporting details are available on 
EnBW’s website. ✓ 
8.7 Public verifier 
reports 
Relevant verifier reports will be publicly 
available on EnBW website.  ✓ 
8.8 
Availability of 
information 
provided to 
verifier 
Relevant information has been provided to 
ISS-Corporate. ✓ 
 
  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  12  o f  34  
9.  CLIMATE BOND TAXONOMY  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
9.1 Matching of climate 
bond category 
The full amount of the net proceeds 
was allocated to eligible assets, which 
fall within the areas included in the 
Climate Bonds Taxonomy. 
✓  
 
10.  TECHNICAL CRITERIA  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
10.1 Sector-specific 
eligibility criteria 
The full amount of the net proceeds is 
allocated to eligible assets related to 
the aforementioned categories and 
conforms with the relevant eligibility 
requirements under Part C of the 
Climate Bonds Standard. 
✓ 
 
  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  13  o f  34  
ANNEX 2: DETAILED FINDINGS LOW CARBON 
TRANSPORT (ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING 
STATIONS)  
✓ 
The green bond(s) asset pool complies with the Climate Bonds Initiative’s Low 
Carbon Transport Criteria. 
All dedicated electric vehicle charging stations are eligible for Climate Bonds 
Certification. EnBW funded 221 locations across Germany during 2022. 
 
ANNEX 3: DETAILED FINDINGS  SOLAR POWER  
✓ 
The green bond(s) asset pool complies with the  Climate Bonds Initiative’s 
Solar Criteria. 
The Issuer has confirmed that the solar farms do not have fossil fuel generation 
over 15% and therefore are eligible for Climate Bonds Certification. The proceeds 
were used to finance the following solar facilities (installed capacity attributable 
to the bond/installed capacity) in Germany: 
▪ Widdern, 8.4 (9) MW 
▪ Roigheim, 8.5 (8.6) MW 
▪ Tauberb. Fichtengrund, 2.3 (2.4) MW 
▪ Braunsbach-Tierberg, 5.1 (5.2) MW 
▪ Billigheim-Waldmühlbach, 11.8 (12.3) MW 
▪ Ulrichshof, 3.3 (6.5) MW 
 
  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  14  o f  34  
ANNEX 4: DETAILED FINDINGS WIND POWER 
(ONSHORE WIND)  
✓ 
The green bond(s) asset pool complies with the  Climate Bonds Initiative’s  
Wind Criteria. 
All onshore wind farms are eligible for Climate Bonds Certification.  The proceeds 
were used to finance the following wind onshore facilities  (installed capacity 
attributable to the bond/installed capacity) in Germany: 
▪ Grömbach, 7.2 (7.2) MW 
▪ Wiemerstedt I & II, 0,1 (11.4) MW 
▪ Oberramstadt, 4.6 (8.4) MW 
▪ Hüttersdorf, 3.4 (6.6) MW 
▪ Obhausen, 22.6 (36) MW 
▪ Steinheim, 21 (21) MW 
▪ Wulkow-Trebnitz, 21 (21) MW 
▪ Düsedau II, 22.4 (22.4) MW 
▪ Häusern, 6.5 (6.9) MW 
▪ Hohenstadt, 12.6 (12.6) MW 
▪ Lentföhrden, 24 (24) MW 
▪ Veringenstadt B, 3.8 (4) MW 
▪ Prötzel II, 37.8 (37.8) MW 
▪ Hardheim-Höpfingen, 0.1 (17) MW 
▪ Sulzbach-Laufen, 7.4 (22.2) MW 
 
  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  15  o f  34  
ANNEX 5: DETAILED FINDINGS MARINE RENEWABLE 
ENERGY (OFFSHORE WIND)  
✓ 
The green bond(s) asset pool complies with the  Climate Bonds Initiative’s  
Marine Renewable Energy Criteria. 
All offshore wind farms are eligible for Climate Bonds Certification. The proceeds 
were used to finance the following offshore wind facilities (installed capacity 
attributable to the bond/installed capacity) in the Irish Sea and North Sea:  
▪ Morgan and Mona 160.5 (3,000) MW 
▪ Morven 994.2 (2,900) MW. 
The offshore wind parks are eligible for the Climate Bonds Initiative because they 
comply with the mitigation, adaptation and resilient components (please see below 
for further details). 
 
Disclosure Component  
 
ITEM INFORMATION DISCLOSED 
1 
Project location and 
size, including 
description of marine 
coastal ecosystem in 
proximity to planned 
installations, noting, 
for example, whether 
located in marine 
protected areas or 
vulnerable marine 
ecosystems 
There are two lease areas in the Irish Sea, with a  combined 
potential generating capacity of 2 × 1,500 MW = 3,000 MW. 
The projects are Mona in Welsh waters and Morgan in English 
waters. Whilst the agreement for lease areas are bigger, the 
project array areas have been refined down during the 
consenting process, therefore Mona is now approx imately 
300 km² and Morgan is now approximately 280 km². 
Three Development Consent Order (DCO) applications, which 
cover both the generation and the transmission assets , have 
been submitted for the two projects earlier in 2024: 
▪ A DCO for Mona  
▪ A DCO for the Morgan Generation Assets  
▪ A DCO for the Morgan Transmission Assets  
Their environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and Habitats 
Regulations Assessments (HRAs) have studied impacts 
related to protected areas in the project area and impacts 
related to nearby protected areas. 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  16  o f  34  
Both the Mona and the Morgan Generation Assets DCOs are 
currently in examination. The Morgan Transmission Assets 
DCO is currently in pre-examination. 
The lease option area is in the North Sea, with a  potential 
generating capacity of approximately 2.9  GW. Morven is in 
Scottish waters and the potential array area is 860 km².  
The EIAs and HRAs for the project and its grid connections 
will study impacts related to protected areas in the project 
area and impacts related to nearby protected areas. 
2 Projected lifespan of 
the asset/project 
Projected lifespan for Mona and Morgan as of today is 56 
years. Morven will have an operation lifetime of  
approximately 56 years. 
The lease period upon entry  (post consenting) will be 60 
years, from which the  construction duration will have to be 
deducted to determine the operation lifetime. 
3 
Key stakeholders 
involved, including 
other users of the area 
and surrounding area 
(sea, land or air 
depending on what is 
applicable) of the 
facility 
For Mona and Morgan offshore wind projects , k ey 
stakeholders include but are not limited to: 
▪ The Crown Estate 
▪ English and Welsh governmental institutions  and 
agencies 
▪ Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 
▪ Department for Energy Security and Net Zero 
▪ Natural England 
▪ Natural Resources Wales 
▪ Joint Nature Conservation Committee 
▪ The Wildlife Trusts 
▪ Historic England 
▪ The Royal Commission on the Ancient and  Historical 
Monuments of Wales 
▪ Marine Management Organisation 
▪ Maritime and Coastguard Agency 
▪ Trinity House 
▪ Local communities 
▪ Ferry operators 
▪ English, Welsh, Scottish and Irish fishing industries 
▪ National Grid (transmission system operator) 
▪ The Royal Society for Protection of Birds 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  17  o f  34  
For the Morven offshore wind project , k ey stakeholders 
include but are not limited to: 
▪ Crown Estate Scotland 
▪ Scottish Environment Protection Agency 
▪ Marine Scotland 
▪ NatureScot 
▪ Joint Nature Conservation Committee 
▪ The Scottish Wildlife Trusts 
▪ Historic Environment Scotland 
▪ Maritime and Coastguard Agency 
▪ Northern Lighthouse Board 
▪ Civil Aviation Authority 
▪ Ministry of Defence 
▪ Royal Society for the Protection of Birds 
▪ Royal Yachting Association Scotland 
▪ Scottish Fishermen’s Federation 
▪ Local communities 
▪ Local Planning Authorities 
▪ Ferry operators 
▪ Scottish and English fishing industries 
▪ National Grid (Transmission System Operator) 
▪ The Royal Society for Protection of Birds 
 
4 
Description of project 
activities, including 
details on installation, 
operation and 
decommissioning 
activities 
For the Mona and Morgan offshore wind projects:  
1. Preferred bidder status, later agreement for lease, 
then lease agreement (the process of the latter can be 
started after all necessary consents are in place) — 
completed  
2. Plan-level Habitats Regulations Assessment ( carried 
out by The Crown Estate) — completed 
3. Site surveys and investigations 
4. Consenting (preparation of consent application s, in 
particular DCO and marine licenses)  
5. Grid connection process with bilateral connection 
agreements 
6. Procurement (Invitation to tender phase)  
7. Detailed design  
8. Fabrication 
9. Installation 
10. Commissioning 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  18  o f  34  
11. Operation phase 
12. Decommissioning 
For the Morven offshore wind project: 
1. The option to lease agreement was executed April 6, 
2022. Entry into the lease agreement is planned after 
all necessary consents are in place. 
2. Consenting (preparation of section 36 application for 
the array and further consents for the grid 
connections/transmission assets) 
3. Grid connection with bilateral connection agreements 
4. Procurement (Invitation to tender phase) 
5. Detailed design 
6. Fabrication 
7. Installation 
8. Commissioning 
9. Operation phase  
10. Decommissioning 
5 
Expected/current 
facility capacity and 
generation during and 
after the life of the 
bond 
The potential combined Mona and Morgan generating 
capacity is 3 GW.  
The potential generating capacity of Morven is approximately 
3 GW. 
6 
Details of where the 
energy generated is 
being fed into, and 
estimated impact on 
grid mix 
For Mona, there will be a radial connection into the National 
Grid Bodelwyddan substation in Wales.  
For Morgan, there will be a coordinated grid connection with 
a shared cable corridor with another Round 4 project 
(Morecambe Offshore Wind) into the National Grid 
substation at Penwortham in England . Morven will have two 
grid connections of about 1.5 GW each , but both grid 
connection designs are not yet finalized.  The holistic network 
design (HND) process is considering 1.5  GW of the Morven 
project in a coordinated design ( with neighboring  wind 
farms) and developer-built solution exporting the power into 
Hawthorn Pit point of interconnection (i.e., into England with 
HVDC technology). 
The other 1.5 GW of the Morven project is being considered 
in the HND follow up process. The point of interconnection  
will be Branxton in Scotland. This grid connection will also be 
developer-built. The project anticipates more clarification on 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  19  o f  34  
the grid connection system and final grid connection 
agreements in 2025. 
7 
Projected avoided 
GHG emissions 
compared to fossil 
fuel counterfactual (in 
kgCO2e) using 
recognized conversion 
factors 
While there is no such comparison for the projects, there is a 
climate change chapter in the three DCO applications 
submitted earlier in 2024  for Mona, the Morgan Generation 
Assets and the Morgan Transmission Assets. 
8 
The planning 
standards, 
environmental 
regulations and other 
regulations that the 
project has been 
required to comply 
with 
A DCO will be required for Mona and Morgan under the  
Planning Act 2008  and deemed marine license will be 
required for the project area s in Welsh and English offshore 
waters. However, as the offshore export cable route for Mona 
will pass through both Welsh offshore and Welsh inshore 
waters, a separate marine license will be required under the 
Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 for the offshore export 
cable route within Welsh inshore waters.  
For the Morven Wind Farm Array, the project intends to apply 
for Section 36 consent under the Electricity Act 1989 together 
with associated marine licenses. The offshore transmission 
infrastructure will require marine licenses for those elements 
located within Scottish waters. For any onshore transmission 
infrastructure located in Scotland , a separate planning 
permission under the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) 
Act 1997 will also be required. 
The Morven Hawthorn Pit Grid Connection Project will pass 
through English waters and land to Hawthorn Pit and will 
require a DCO , which will cover both offshore and onshore 
elements. 
Depending on the final grid connection design and 
depending on where exactly both export cables and grid 
connection infrastructure (cables and substations) will be 
located, more applications/consents will be required with the 
respective competent English and/or Scottish authorities. 
Mitigation Component  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  20  o f  34  
1 The asset is 100% dedicated to 
renewable energy 
Within the wind offshore 
project category , EnBW 
confirms that all assets of the 
2022 green bond have been 
used for  its U.K. wind 
offshore projects Mona, 
Morgan and Morven. 
✓ 
2 
Any fossil fuel back up in place 
is limited to powering 
monitoring, operating and 
maintenance equipment in the 
event of no renewable power in 
the system, powering resilience 
or protection measures in the 
event of no renewable power in 
the system, restart capability 
EnBW confirms the any fossil 
fuel back up in place is not 
designated nor designed to 
generate electricity but 
rather restart capabilities or 
ensuring the operation on 
the site. 
✓ 
Adaptation and Resilience Component  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
1.1 
Processes are in place 
to assess key risks to 
the assets from a 
changing climate and 
its impact on marine 
conditions 
The possible effects of climate change 
and its impact on marine conditions 
are assessed through an environmental 
impact assessment for the Mona and 
Morgan offshore wind projects. 
For the Mona Offshore Wind Farm, a 
DCO application was submitted in 
February 2024 and is under review. As 
part of the DCO application, an 
Environmental Statement was 
included, which examines potential 
impacts like rising sea temperatures 
and ocean acidification. Proposed 
mitigation measures address these 
risks, reducing them to a non -
significant level according to EIA 
standards. 
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  21  o f  34  
The Morgan Offshore Wind Project 
Generation Assets have also 
undergone review, with a DCO 
application submitted in April 2024  
and accepted  by the Planning 
Inspectorate. This application includes 
an Environmental Statement featuring 
a climate change chapter and risk 
assessment, focusing on long -term 
changes in marine conditions such as 
sea-level rise and increased wave 
heights, is publicly available. Proposed 
mitigation measures reduce these 
potential risks to negligible, non -
significant levels under EIA criteria. 
The Morven Offshore Wind Array 
Project has completed a Scoping 
Report submission in July 2023, with 
the Scoping Opinion published in 
November 2023. A Section 36 
application is in preparation for further 
approvals. Additionally, Morven grid 
connections 1 and 2 are in progress, 
with Grid Connection 1’s DCO process 
initiated and Grid Connection 2’s 
consenting strategy dependent on 
National Grid’s further guidance. 
2.1 
Processes are in place 
to assess 
improvements and 
impacts the assets 
have on the resilience 
of other stakeholders 
EnBW confirms that the process is 
described in the D CO, the EIA and the 
Preliminary Environmental Information 
Report. Scoping is the first milestone in 
the preapplication process  for the 
DCO, followed by the Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report, 
then the Environmental Statement , 
which is submitted as an integral part 
of the DCO application. This iterative 
approach allows for feedback from 
stakeholders both through statutory 
and non -statutory consultations, as 
well as for refinements to the project 
design envelope, which ha s been 
✓  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  22  o f  34  
introduced for both the Mona and the 
Morgan projects. Moreover, the DCO 
process has been accompanied by 
several expert working groups. 
For Morven Offshore Windfarm, the 
project is in the non -statutory 
consultation phase, where initial plans 
are shared with the public and 
stakeholders for early feedback. This 
will be followed by statutory 
consultation and submitting for a DCO 
to the Secretary of State for Energy 
Security and Net Zero. 
3.1 
An adaptation plan has 
been designed and is 
being implemented to 
address the risks 
identified in the 
assessments outlined 
above 
The EIA will provide an assessment of 
the potential environmental impacts 
associated with the construction, 
operation and maintenance, and 
decommissioning phases of the 
project.  
An iterative approach to assessment 
will be adopted, whereby a specific 
impact is initially assessed, and if this is 
deemed to be a significant adverse 
effect in EIA terms, changes are made 
(where practicable) to relevant project 
parameters or design to av oid, reduce 
or offset the magnitude of that impact.  
The assessment is then repeated until 
either the effect has been reduced to a 
level that is not significant in EIA terms 
or no further changes may be made to 
the project design parameters to 
reduce the magnitude of the impact.  
The EIA is to be accompanied by an 
Environmental Management and 
Monitoring Plan, which will include all 
project mitigation/monitoring 
measures and commitments made 
within the EIA. 
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  23  o f  34  
3.2 
Inspections are carried 
out regularly and there 
is a maintenance 
regime for future 
inspections with 
evidence that this is 
adhered to. 
EnBW confirms that inspections will be 
carried out regularly and there will be a 
maintenance regime for future 
inspections once the projects will be in 
operation. The frequency will depend 
on the maintenance approach for the 
different elements of the projects. 
✓ 
4.1 
Issuer is involved in 
stakeholder 
engagement and 
collaboration 
Stakeholder engagement is an 
essential part of the consenting and 
grid connection process, as well as the 
supply chain engagement, and thus an 
indispensable component of the 
project. 
For Morgan and Mona, stakeholder 
engagement has been ongoing since 
2021 and will be further continued. 
Currently, several Statements of 
Common Grounds are being 
negotiated with key stakeholders of 
the Mona Offshore Wind Farm and the 
Morgan Offshore Wind Project 
Generation Assets.  For Morven 
Offshore Windfarm, the project is at 
the non -statutory consultation phase , 
where initial plans are shared with the 
public and stakeholders for early 
feedback. This will be followed by 
statutory consultation and submitting 
for a DCO to the Secretary of State for 
Energy Security and Net Zero.  
✓ 
5.1 
The assets or projects 
do not put at risk or 
endangered species or 
habitat or unduly 
impact ecosystem 
services. Where there 
are possible negative 
impacts to habitats, 
mitigation measures 
are implemented to 
offset the negative 
impacts 
EnBW confirms that appropriate 
mitigation measures will be 
implemented to mitigate risks to 
endangered species or habitats. These 
may include shifting the construction 
period or reducing underwater noise 
during the foundation piling  for the 
wind turbine generator foundations.  
The Environmental Statements comes 
with several proposed mitigation 
measures. The DCO applications 
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  24  o f  34  
submitted to date can be found 
online.1  
For the Morven Offshore Windfarm, 
the project is in the  pre-EIA phase , 
which will highlight mitigation 
measures needed to mitigate risks to 
endangered species or habitats. All 
EnBW U.K. offshore wind projects have 
been audited to meet the relevant EU 
Taxonomy technical screen ing criteria 
and do no significant harm criteria, 
including the protect and restore 
biodiversity and ecosystems aspect. 
5.2 
Waste is responsibly 
dealt with, including 
appropriate disposal of 
construction waste and 
oil-based lubricants, 
including recycling 
options where possible 
EnBW confirms that for Mona and 
Morgan, the EIA will be accompanied 
by an Environmental Management and 
Monitoring Plan, which will include a 
Waste Management Plan.2 An Offshore 
environmental management plan  
covering the period of construction 
and operation will also be submitted 
post-consent phase for the Morgan 
project, including details of waste 
management and disposal 
arrangements, covering marine 
pollution under the marine pollution 
contingency plan. 
For the Morven project, EnBW confirms 
that, if required , the EIA will be 
accompanied by draft management 
plans, which will include an Outline Site 
Waste Management Plan. 
✓ 
5.3 
The Issuer has 
recognized and listed 
the potential risks for 
For the Mona project, adherence to an 
offshore Environmental Management 
Plan (EMP) that will include a Marine 
Pollution Contingency Plan (MPCP)  
✓ 
 
1 For the Mona Offshore Wind Farm, in the Mitigation and Monitoring Schedule, the Outline Marine Mammal Mitigation Protocol 
or the Outline Underwater Sound Management Strategy . For the Morgan Offshore Wind Project Generation Assets , in the 
Mitigation and Monitoring Schedule , the Outline Marine Mammal Mitigation Protocol  or the Outline Underwater Sound 
Management Strategy. 
2 For the Mona Offshore Wind Farm, the Outline Site Waste Management Plan is available here. 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  25  o f  34  
accidental site 
contamination either 
from leakage of 
hydraulic fluid or from 
wreckage/debris on 
the seabed. 
Demonstrable steps 
have been taken to 
minimise these risks 
and plans have been 
made for clean-up 
should a site 
contamination event 
occur. 
which will include planning for 
accidental spills, address all potential 
contaminant releases and include  key 
emergency details will be developed. 
The Mona project  DCO applications 
submitted included the Outline 
Spillage and Emergency Response 
Plan, which applies exclusively to its 
onshore elements.  
There is an Outline Spillage and 
Emergency Response Plan , for the 
transmission of the Morgan Offshore 
Wind Proje ct, and a Marine Pollution 
Contingency Plan  covering oil spill 
response for  Morgan’s generation 
assets.3 
For the Morven project, if required, the 
EIA will be accompanied by an Outline 
Spillage and Emergency Response Plan 
will accompany the EIA . The 
development to the Marine Pollution 
Contingency Plan, to help avoid and 
tackle water pollution incidents, was 
also required by the East Lothian 
Council when replying to the Scoping 
Request linked with the project. 
All of EnBW UK offshore wind projects 
have also been audited to meet the 
relevant EU taxonomy technical screen 
criteria and the Do Not Significant 
Harm criteria, including the protect and 
restore biodiversity and ecosystems 
aspect. 
5.4 
Decommissioning of 
the plant is planned in 
a way that considers 
environmental impacts 
EnBW confirms that information on the 
decommissioning phase requirements 
is included in various chapters of the 
project-specific Environmental 
✓ 
 
3 For the Morgan Offshore Wind Farm: Generation Assets, pollution response arrangements can be found in Chapter 5.1, Annex 
A: S_D4_11_Morgan Gen_Outline Offshore Environmental Management Plan_F01. 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  26  o f  34  
Statements.4 EnBW commits that it will 
fully comply with the requirements set 
out in the U.K. Energy Act, including all 
decommission-related matters. 
5.5 
Issuer has plans and 
processes in place to 
effectively manage and 
minimize conflict with 
other users of marine 
and coastal place. 
EnBW has identified the  relevant 
stakeholders and has a stakeholder 
management strategy in place  to 
minimize or, where deemed necessary, 
mitigate any potential conflicts. 
✓ 
 
  
 
4 For the Mona Offshore Wind Farm, please see the Project Description. For the Morgan Offshore Wind Project Generation Assets, 
please see the Project Description. For the Morven Offshore Wind Array Project, please see the Scoping Report. 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  27  o f  34  
ANNEX 6: DETAILED FINDINGS GRID AND STORAGE 
INFRASTRUCTURE  
✓ 
The green bond(s) asset pool complies with the Climate Bonds Initiative’s Grid 
and Storage Criteria. 
EnBW's distribution grid meets the criterion that more than 67% of connections in 
the last five years are below the generation threshold value of 100 gCO2e/kWh 
measured on a life cycle basis in accordance with electricity generation criteria. 
 
Adaptation and Resilience Component  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
1 Clear boundaries and critical interdependencies between the infrastructure and the 
system it operates within are identified. 
1.1 
Boundaries of the 
infrastructure are 
defined 
EnBW allocated the proceeds to projects 
executed, approved or planned in 2020 
and 2021, as detailed in a list that 
includes the location and investment 
volume of each project within this 
timeframe. As a result, the specific parts 
of the grid financed (or refinanced) by the 
green bond can be clearly identified. The 
assets have lifespans ranging from 25 to 
100 years, which extends beyond the 
duration of the bond. 
✓ 
1.2 
Critical 
interdependencies 
between the 
infrastructure and the 
system within which it 
operates are 
identified.  
EnBW records unscheduled interruptions 
to supply as one of its key performance 
indicators since 2014. This data flows into 
the System Average Interruption 
Duration Index (SAIDI). It states the 
average duration of supply interruptions 
per end consumer in minutes per year.  
Furthermore, EnBW’s risk management 
approach includes the identification of 
critical interdependencies between its 
infrastructure and the systems within 
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  28  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
which it operates. This is achieved 
through an environmental management 
system, certified under DIN EN ISO 
14001, and adherence to legal 
requirements such as EIAs for the 
construction and operation of electricity 
networks. In line with regulatory 
frameworks in Germany and Europe, 
EnBW must systematically identify and 
document how a project may affect 
various environme ntal factors  including 
human health, animals, plants, 
biodiversity, soil, water, air, climate, 
landscape and cultural assets . Regular 
crisis m anagement exercises further 
ensure that any emergent risks are 
promptly identified and mitigated. 
Additionally, all the electricity grids are 
taxonomy aligned. As part of the 
taxonomy reporting, EnBW conducts a 
comprehensive climate risk analysis to 
ensure it fulfills the do no significant 
harm criteria of climate change 
adaptation. This approach is annually 
audited by auditors as part of the EU 
Taxonomy reporting. 
2 An assessment has been undertaken to identify the key physical climate hazards to 
which the infrastructure will be exposed and vulnerable to over its operating life 
2.1 
Key physical climate 
risks and indicators of 
these risks are 
identified in line with 
the sector criteria 
guidelines. 
EnBW identifies and assesses key physical 
climate risks through a standardized risk 
map, which evaluates the exposure of its 
activities to climate hazards as part of its 
annual EU Taxonomy alignment process. 
The physical climate risk analysis is done  
with third-party support  provided by 
Jupiter Intelligence,  and the approach 
has been confirmed by auditors. Climate 
risks are categorized into temperature, 
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  29  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
wind, water and ground, and are 
assessed using short-term, medium-term 
and long-term forecasts. All forecasts are 
analyzed based on  the IPCC scenarios 
SSP1-RCP2.6, SSP2 -RCP4.5 and SSP5 -
RCP8.5. The analysis includes risks 
concerning temper ature changes (heat 
and cold), changes in wind patterns 
(including thunderstorms), changes in 
water patterns (including heavy rainfall 
and flooding  and sea-level rise) and 
solid-related hazards like landslides. 
The assets are then rated based on their 
exposure and resilience, ensuring that 
those most vulnerable to climate impacts 
are prioritized for mitigation. This 
approach meets the criteria for 
identifying critical interdependencies and 
assessing the robustness of infrastructure 
in the face of climate change 
uncertainties, including those that could 
affect the stability and performance of 
electrical energy systems over their 
operational lifetime. 
3  
The measures that have or will be taken to address those risks mitigate them to a 
level such that the infrastructure is suitable to climate change conditions over its 
operational life. 
3.1 
Risk management 
activities that are 
relevant to the 
climate risks and 
impacts identified in 
the risk assessment.  
EnBW’s risk management process 
mandates implementing measures to 
avoid or reduce identified physical and 
transition risks. For these risks, EnBW rolls 
out adaptation plans developed by 
internal experts. Additionally, EnBW has 
established an internal screening process 
for climate risks, addressing both short -
term (next three years) and long -term 
(10-30 years) perspectives. The 
mitigation measures are designed to 
✓  
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  30  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
cover the climatic changes over the entire 
period of operation . Regular updates of 
the climate risk analysis enable 
readjustment with IPCC scenario 
updates. Mitigation measures are 
organized into categories such as 
temperature, wind, water and ground, 
and are evaluated for each activity. 
3.2 
Risk reduction 
measures must be 
tolerant to a range of 
climate hazards and 
not lock in conditions 
that could result in 
maladaptation 
EnBW confirms that the measures 
implemented to mitigate the 
consequences of climate change in line 
with current knowledge do not create 
any additional limits or dependencies in 
the system during the transformation 
process. 
The Issuer also precise that EnBW’s 
distribution grids meet EU Taxonomy 
criteria under Activity 4.9 ( transmission 
and distribution of electricity). An annual 
climate risk analysis of relevant assets 
plays a crucial role in ensuring 
compliance with the do no significant 
harm requirements for EU Environmental 
Goal 2 (climate change mitigation). This 
climate risk analysis is integrated into 
EnBW's internal annual review process to 
reaffirm the taxonomy alignment of its 
grid activities. 
✓ 
4. 
The infrastructure enhances the climate resilience of the defined system it operates 
within, as indicated by the boundaries of and critical interdependencies with that 
system as identified in Item 1 in this checklist. 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  31  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
4.1 
The climate resilience 
benefits of system 
focused assets and 
activities are assessed 
and it is 
demonstrated they 
are “fit for purpose,” 
in the sense that they 
enhance climate 
resilience at a 
systemic level, with 
the flexibility to take 
into account the 
uncertainty around 
future climate change 
impacts. 
EnBW confi rmed that the adaption 
measures and plan described previously 
enhance the climate resilience of the 
system. The effects that derive from the 
climate risk analysis are integrated based 
on severity and likelihood of occurrence 
into th e climate transition plan and 
correlated adaptation measures.  The 
adaptation measures are designed at the 
local and project level and align with the 
risk analysis and risk management 
processes in place.  
EnBW also confirms that the adaptation 
solutions implemented do not adversely 
affect the adaptation efforts or the level 
of resilience to physical climate risks of 
other people, nature, cultural heritage, of 
assets and of other economic activities 
and are consistent with local, sectoral, 
regional or national adaptation strategies 
and plans. EnBW also considers the use 
of nature -based solutions and rel ies on 
blue or green infrastructure to the extent 
possible. 
The Issuer also confirms that the 
measures are compliant with national 
and European nature protection laws , 
including th ose addressing bird 
protections. 
✓ 
5. 
The issuance is required to demonstrate that there will be ongoing monitoring and 
evaluation of the relevance of the risks and resilience measures and related 
adjustments to those measures will be taken as needed. 
5.1 
Indicators for risk 
identified under Item 
2 in this checklist are 
provided 
The risks of the Issuer’s business activities 
are monitored and evaluated regular ly 
and published in the "report on 
 ✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  32  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
opportunities and risks " in its  Annual 
Report. 
For grid infrastructure projects in 
Germany, particularly in Baden -
Württemberg, the identified risks 
primarily stem from heat and flooding. 
Several indicators related to the 
temperature-related hazards and water -
related hazards were also defined to 
assess the relevancy of the risks. For 
example, the number of days per year 
with temperature above 35  °C, the 
average annual temperature (in °C) or the 
total water equivalent precipitation (in 
mm) for the year. 
Additionally, the Issuer confirms that all 
EnBW offshore activities and electricity 
grids are aligned with the EU Taxonomy, 
as per the Group selection process. This 
means that all activities fulfi ll the do no 
significant harm criteri a for EU 
Environmental Objective 2 (adaptation to 
climate change ), which is audited and 
certified annually by an auditor. 
5.2 
Indicators for risk 
mitigation measures 
identified under Item 
3 in this checklist are 
provided 
The Issuer  explains that the mitigation 
measures are specifically developed for 
each individual asset for which climate 
risks have been identified. 
For grid infrastructure projects, several 
indicators were identified , which are 
addressed with corresponding migration 
measures (e.g., reduction of conductivity 
due to heat stress, replacement of 
operating equipment/spare parts with 
special properties regarding extreme 
weather and climatic changes). 
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  33  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
The implementation of these measures is 
needs-based and being reviewed on a n 
asset-specific basis. 
Measures include the regular adaptation 
of financial forecasts to account for 
potential increases in repair costs or 
reductions in revenues. To prepare for 
potential damage to electricity poles, 
they are assessed for their structural 
integrity and exposure to clima te risks. 
The poles are then rated and categorized 
based on their resilience and stability.  
5.3 
Indicators for “fit for 
purpose” resilience 
benefit measures 
identified under Item 
4 in this checklist are 
provided 
The Issuer confirmed that the mitigation 
measures are specifically developed for 
each individual asset, as described in the 
dedicated section, and that indicators are 
used to track and monitor the rollout of 
the measures. For example, for electricity 
grids: 
▪ Impacts of higher temperatures 
include the regular adaptation of 
financial forecasts to consider 
possible higher costs for repairs 
or lower revenues.  
▪ To be prepared for any damages 
to electricity poles, the poles are 
evaluated concerning their 
statics and exposure. The poles 
are then rated and clustered into 
different categories concerning 
their resilience and stability. 
✓ 
5.4 
Issuers have a viable 
plan to annually 
monitor (a) climate 
risks linked to the 
infrastructure, (b) 
The Issuer confirms to regularly monitor 
the risks and measures outlined. EnBW 
began implementing the EU guidelines 
for the new Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive in 2023. The climate-
✓ 
P O S T- I S S U A N C E  C B I  C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
 
www.iss -corporate.com  34  o f  34  
 
REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
climate resilience 
performance, (c) 
appropriateness of 
climate resilience 
measure(s) and to 
adjust as necessary to 
address evolving 
climate risks 
related risk analysis is a key component 
of the general reporting requirements 
under ESRS 2.  
As part of this, EnBW initiated a project 
aimed at enhancing its climate risk 
management practices with involvement 
from the risk, accounting, and 
sustainability departments. Measures 
aligned with the EU Taxonomy will be 
expanded, further systematized and 
integrated into processes as part of this 
initiative. EnBW follows the 
recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. 
5.5 
Where electricity 
supply has been 
interrupted, the 
number of customer 
interruptions and 
customer minutes lost 
(i.e., aggregate 
duration of supply 
interruptions) should 
be measured and 
reported, together 
with the cause of the 
interruption. Any 
actions taken to 
reduce the risk of 
further impacts 
should also be 
recorded. 
EnBW has been tracking all unscheduled 
supply interruptions at its distribution 
grid operators for gas and electricity as a 
key performance indicator since 2014. 
This data contributes to the calculation of 
the SAIDI, which measures the average 
duration of supply interruptions per end 
consumer, expressed in minutes per year. 
This KPI is published annually in EnBW’s 
Integrated Report. In 2023, the SAIDI was 
19.3 minutes per year, an increase from 
16.6 minutes per year in 2022. 
✓