© Sustainalytics 2023 
  
Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane S.p.A 
POST-ISSUANCE VERIFICATION LETTER  
LOW CARBON TRANSPORTATION CRITERIA OF THE CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD 
Type of engagement: Assurance Engagement 
Period engagement was carried out: January-March 2023 
Approved verifier:  Sustainalytics 
Contact address for engagement: 215 Spadina Ave, Toronto, ON, M5T 2C7, Canada 
Post-Issuance Engagement Leader: Daniel Sanchez, daniel.sanchez@morningstar.com, (+1) 647 264 6644 
Post-Issuance Engagement Support: Sameen Ahmed, sameen.ahmed@morningstar.com; Graeme 
Sutherland Graeme.sutherland@morningstar.com  
 
Scope and Objectives 
In December 2021, Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane S.p.A (“Ferrovie”, the “Company” or the “Issuer” ) issued the 
EMTN Green Bond Series 18  (the “ Green Bond Series 18 ”) aimed at financing  expenditures related the 
development of new passenger  transport rolling stock to enable low -carbon land transportation (the 
“Nominated Project and Assets”) .1 In January 2023, Ferrovie engaged Sustainalytics to review the project s 
funded through the issued Green Bond Series 18  and provide an assessment as to whether th e Nominated 
Project and Assets financed between 23 December  2021, and 23 December 2022, met the Post -Issuance 
Requirements under the Low Carbon Transport2 criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0.3 
The Nominated Project and Assets include investment in high-speed trains for the trans-European transport 
network.  
Schedule 1 provides details of the financed project and disbursement of proceeds. 
Post-Issuance Evaluation Criteria 
Post-issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0: 
• Use of Proceeds 
• Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets 
• Management of Proceeds 
• Reporting 
Issuing Entity’s Responsibility  
Ferrovie is responsible for providing accurate information and documentation relating to the details of the 
projects that have been funded, including description of projects, total development cost of each project and 
disbursed amounts. 
Independence and Quality Control  
Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG and corporate governance research and ratings to investors, 
conducted the verification of the Green Bond Series 18 , issued to finance the development of electric and 
high-speed passenger trains, and provided an independent opinion informing Ferrovie as to the conformance 
of the Green Bond Series 18 with the Post-Issuance Requirements and Low Carbon Transport criteria of the 
Climate Bonds Standard.  
Sustainalytics has relied on the information and the facts presented  by Ferrovie with respect to the projects 
financed by the Green Bond Series 18 . Sustainalytics is not responsible , nor shall it be held liable for any 
 
1 Ferrovie, “EIB provides financing to FS Italiane to purchase new high-speed trains in Italy and Spain via €350 million green bond”, (2021), at: 
https://www.fsitaliane.it/content/fsitaliane/en/media/press-releases/2021/12/16/eib-provides-financing-to-fs-italiane-to-purchase-new-high-
speed.html  
2 Climate Bonds Initiative, Transport Criteria, (2022), at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/CBI%20Transport%20Criteria%20document_Aug2022%281%29.pdf 
3 Climate Bonds Initiative, Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0, at: https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/climate-bonds-standard-v3-20191210.pdf  

Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
2 
inaccuracies in the opinions, findings or conclusions herein due to incorrect or incomplete data provided by 
Ferrovie.  
Sustainalytics makes all efforts to ensure the highest quality and rigor during its assessment process and 
enlisted its Sustainability Bonds Review Committee to provide oversight over the assessment of the bond. 
Verifier’s Responsibility 
Sustainalytics conducted the verification in accordance with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 and with 
the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) – Assurance Engagements Other 
Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 
The work undertaken as part of this engagement included conversations with relevant  Ferrovie employees 
and review of relevant documentation to assess the conformance of Ferrovie’s Green Bond Series 18 with the 
Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
Exceptions 
No exceptions were identified. All projects aligned with the Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds 
Standard Version 3.0 and were in conformance with the Low Carbon Transport criteria. 
Conclusion 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted  and evidence obtained , nothing has come to 
Sustainalytics’ attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the allocation of EUR 350 
million from the Ferrovie Green Bond Series 18  is not in conformance with the Post -Issuance Requirements 
of the Climate Bonds Standard.  
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
3 
Schedule 1: Detailed Overview of the Nominated Projects 
and Assets 
Details of the Nominated Projects and Assets as provided by Ferrovie:4 
Category Project Description Vehicle 
Units 
Allocated 
Amount 
(EUR) 
Share of 
Allocated 
Amount 
Total Energy 
Savings 
(MWh)5 
Recyclability 
Rate6 
Clean 
Transportation 
Investments in public 
passenger electric 
transport rolling stock - 
New Electric High-Speed 
Trains ETR 10007  
 
10 350 
million 100% 2.665 >94% 
 
 
4 Ferrovie, “EIB provides financing to FS Italiane to purchase new high-speed trains in Italy and Spain via €350 million green bond”, (2021) at: 
https://www.fsitaliane.it/content/fsitaliane/en/media/press-releases/2021/12/16/eib-provides-financing-to-fs-italiane-to-purchase-new-high-
speed.html  
5 This is a preliminary estimate based on the information available for Spanish high-speed power grid in 2021.   
6 Reported impact refers to data from 23 December  2021, to 23 December  2022. 
7 The investment in these high-speed passenger trains is intended to boost the expansion of high-speed transport on the trans-European transport 
network in Italy and Spain. 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
4 
Schedule 2A: Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate 
Bonds Standard 
 
Use of 
Proceeds 
5.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be allocated to the Nominated Projects & 
Assets. 
5.2 All Nominated Projects & Assets shall meet the documented objectives of the Bond 
as stated under Clause 6.1.1 and shall be in conformance with the requirements of 
Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
5.3 The Issuer shall allocate the Net Proceeds to Nominated Projects & Assets within 
24 months of issuance of the Bond, or the Issuer shall disclose in post-issuance 
reporting as per clause 8.3 the estimated timeline for allocation of net proceeds to 
Nominated Projects & Assets. Net proceeds may be reallocated to other 
Nominated Projects & Assets at any time while the Bond remains outstanding. 
5.4 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other Certified Climate 
Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, 
green loans or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds) 
unless it is demonstrated by the Issuer that: 
5.4.1. distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & Assets are being funded by 
different Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt 
Instruments, green bonds, green loans or other labelled instruments or; 
5.4.2. the existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Certified 
Climate Debt Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified Climate Bond, 
Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate Debt Instrument. 
5.5 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds of the Bond are used for refinancing, the 
Issuer shall track the share of the Net Proceeds used for financing and refinancing 
and identify which Nominated Projects & Assets may be refinanced. This may also 
include the expected look-back period for refinanced Nominated Projects & Assets. 
5.6 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be tracked by the Issuer following a formal 
internal process which is documented in accordance with Clause 3.1. 
5.7 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be no greater than the Issuer’s total investment 
exposure or debt obligation to the Nominated Projects & Assets, or the relevant 
proportion of the total Market Value of the Nominated Projects & Assets which are 
owned or financed by the Issuer. 
5.8 Additional Nominated Project & Assets may be added to, or used to substitute or 
replenish, the portfolio of Nominated Project & Assets as long as the additional 
Nominated Project & Assets are eligible under Part C of the Climate Bonds 
Standard and are consistent with the Bond’s objective as set out in Clause 6.1.1. 
5.8.1. Where additional Nominated Projects & Assets are covered by Sector 
Eligibility Criteria which were not included in the scope of either the Pre-Issuance 
Verification or the Post-Issuance Verification engagements, the Issuer shall engage 
a Verifier to provide a Verifier’s Report covering at least the conformance of the 
additional Nominated Projects & Assets with the relevant Sector Eligibility Criteria 
under Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
 
Process for 
Evaluation 
and Selection 
of Projects & 
Assets 
6.1 The Issuer shall document and maintain a decision-making process which it uses 
to determine the continuing eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. This 
includes, without limitation: 
6.1.1. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond; 
6.1.2. How the climate-related objectives of the Bond are positioned within. the 
context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes 
relating to environmental sustainability; 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
5 
6.1.3. The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond; 
6.1.4. A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & Assets meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard; 
6.1.5. Other information provided by the Issuer as described in Clause 2.2 
Management 
of Proceeds 
7.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be credited to a sub account, moved to a sub- 
portfolio or otherwise identified by the Issuer in an appropriate manner, and 
documented. 
7.2 The Issuer of the Bond shall maintain the earmarking process to manage and 
account for allocation of Net Proceeds to the Nominated Projects & Assets as 
described in Clause 3.1.3 
7.3 While the Bond remains outstanding, the balance of the tracked Net Proceeds shall 
be reduced by amounts allocated to Nominated Projects & Assets. Pending such 
allocations to Nominated Projects & Assets, the balance of unallocated Net 
Proceeds shall be: 
7.3.1. Held in temporary investment instruments that are cash, or cash equivalent 
instruments, within a Treasury function; or 
7.3.2. Held in temporary investment instruments that do not include greenhouse 
gas intensive projects which are inconsistent with the delivery of a low carbon and 
climate resilient economy; or 
7.3.3. Applied to temporarily reduce indebtedness of a revolving nature before 
being redrawn for investments or disbursements to Nominated Projects & Assets. 
Reporting – 
Post-issuance  
8.1 The Issuer shall prepare an Update Report at least annually while the Bond remains 
outstanding. 
8.1.2. The Update Report shall be made available to holders of the Bond and to the 
Climate Bonds Standard Board. 
8.1.3. The Issuer should provide an Update Report to holders of the Bond on a 
timely basis in case of material developments. 
 
 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
6 
Schedule 2B: Conformance to the Post-Issuance 
Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard 
 
Evaluation 
Criteria 
Factual Findings Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Use of 
Proceeds  
5.1 A list of Nominated Projects & Assets is provided in Schedule 1. 
 
5.2 The Nominated Project & Assets meet the documented objectives 
of the Green Bond Series 18and are in conformance with the 
requirements of Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
5.3 The Net Proceeds have been allocated to Nominated Projects & 
Assets within 24 months of issuance of the bond.  
5.4 Ferrovie confirms that the Nominated Projects & Assets have not 
been nominated to other Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate 
Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, green 
loans or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG 
bonds). 
5.5 Ferrovie confirms that it has tracked the share of the Net Proceeds 
used for financing and refinancing. 
5.6 Ferrovie has tracked the Net Proceeds based on an internal 
process as established in its Green Bond Framework.8  
5.7 Ferrovie has confirmed that the Net Proceeds raised are no greater 
than the total investment exposure or debt obligation to the 
Nominated Projects & Assets which are owned or financed by the 
Issuer. 
5.8 All assets were in conformance with the Low Carbon 
Transportation criteria. 
5.8.1 N/A 
None 
Process for 
Evaluation and 
Selection of 
Projects & 
Assets  
6.1 Ferrovie’s Green Bond Framework documents a decision-making 
process which it uses to determine the continuing eligibility of the 
Nominated Projects & Assets. This includes, without limitation: 
6.1.1 A statement on the climate-related objectives of the financing; 
6.1.2 How the climate-related objectives of the financing are 
positioned within the context of Ferrovie’s overarching 
objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to 
environmental sustainability; 
6.1.3 Ferrovie’s rationale for issuing the bond; 
6.1.4 A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects meet 
the eligibility requirements specified in the Climate Bonds 
Standard; 
6.1.5 Other information provided by Ferrovie as described in Clause 
2.2 
None 
 
8 Ferrovie, “Second Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane Green Bond Framework”, (2019, at: 
https://www.fsitaliane.it/content/dam/fsitaliane/Documents/investor-relations/Ferrovie_Green%20Bond%20Framework%20update%20-
%20June%202019.pdf 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
7 
Management 
of Proceeds 
7.1 Ferrovie confirmed that Net Proceeds of the bond were credited to 
its normal treasury accounts and then allocated via intercompany 
loans. 
7.2 Ferrovie confirmed that it maintained an earmarking process to 
manage and account for allocation of Net Proceeds to the 
Nominated Projects & Assets. 
7.3 Ferrovie confirmed that bond proceeds have been fully allocated.  
None 
Reporting – 
Post-issuance 
8.1. Ferrovie is committed to preparing an Update Report at least 
annually while the financing remains outstanding. 
8.1.2. The Update Report will be made available to the lenders and to 
the Climate Bonds Standard Board. 
8.1.3. Ferrovie will provide an Update Report to the lenders on a 
timely basis in case of material developments 
None 
 
 
 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
8 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2023 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics 
and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form 
and format disclosed by Sustainalyt ics, or  provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is 
ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any 
product or project;  (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice  or a prospectus; (3) cannot be 
interpreted as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business 
transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations 
nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. 
These are  based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their 
merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up-to-dateness or fitness for a particular purpose. The information 
and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. 
Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the informati on, data or opinions 
contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third 
party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not 
constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our third -party data providers and their 
respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, 
visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version 
shall prevail.  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Ferrovie   
  
 
 
  
 
 
9 
About Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company 
Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports 
investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. 
For more than 30 years, the firm has been at the forefront of developing high-quality, innovative solutions to 
meet the evolving needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with hundreds of the world’s leading 
asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance inform ation and 
assessments into their investment processes. Sustainalytics also works with hundreds of companies and 
their financial intermediaries to help them consider sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. 
With 17 offices globally, Sustainalytics has more than 1500 staff members, including more than 500 analysts 
with varied multidisciplinary expertise across more than 40 industry groups. 
 
For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com 
 
Or contact us contact@sustainalytics.com