DNV Business Assurance Australia Pty. Ltd. Level 4, 181 Miller Street, North Sydney, NSW Australia, 2060. Ph: +61 (2) 9922 1966 https://www.dnv.com/assurance/  
 
 
  
FLEETPARTNERS GROUP LIMITED 
PRE-ISSUANCE VERIFICATION OPINION 
 
 
 
Document Title: FleetPartners Group Pre-Issuance Verification Opinion 
Prepared By: DNV Business Assurance Australia Pty Ltd 
Location: Sydney, Australia 
Date of First Draft: 26/03/2024 
Date of Last Revision: 11/04/2024 
Project Number: 10491915 
 

 
 
Page 2 of 8 
 
   
 
FLEETPARTNERS GROUP GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 
DNV VERIFICATION OPINION 
Scope and Objectives  
FleetPartners Group Limited  (“FleetPartners”, the “Customer”  or the “Issuer”) is a leading provider of 
vehicle leasing, fleet management, heavy commercial vehicles, salary packaging and novated leasing, 
operating across Australia and New Zealand. With decades of experience, FleetPartners manages over 
88,000 (as of September 2023) vehicles on behalf of its customers. They help businesses of all sizes access 
funds, acquire, commission, and effectively manage their vehicles. FleetPartners also help everyday 
Australians maximize their salary through salary packaging benefits and novated leasing. 
FleetPartners has established a Green Bond Framework , January 2024  (the “Framework”) to guide the 
issuance of Green Asset Backed Securities (“Green ABS”) , from its AUD FP Turbo ABS Programme and 
NZD FP Ignition ABS Programme (the “Programmes”) . FleetPartners intends to exclusively apply an 
amount equivalent to the net proceeds from Green ABS issued pursuant to this Framework to finance or 
refinance, in part or in full, new, and existing assets, projects or activities that fall under the Eligible 
Category: 
• Clean Transportation Eligible Green Project Category under Green Bond Principles 2022 (“GBP”) 
• Low Carbon Transportation Sector Criteria as defined by Climate Bonds Initiative (“CBI”)  
Green ABS will be issued in Australia under the FP Turbo Programme by Perpetual Corporate Trust Limited 
(ABN 99 000 341 533), acting as the Trustee, using trusts established periodically under a master trust 
deed. Green ABS will also be issued in New Zealand under the FP Ignition Programme by NZGT (“FP”)  
serving as the trustee of the FP Ignition Trust 2011 – 1 New Zealand ("NZGT"), for any series established 
periodically. The issuance of Green ABS will encompass both public and private term securitisation 
transactions within the Australian and New Zealand asset-backed securitisation capital markets. This Pre-
Issuance Verification Opinion is for the Green ABS from FleetPartners’ Programmes. 
FleetPartners has commissioned DNV Business Assurance Australia Pty Ltd  (“DNV”) to carry out the 
verification of the Green ABS which has been issued in accordance with the terms of the Framework. This 
report contains the findings from the verification and a verification statement regarding compliance with 
the CBI with the Climate Bond Standard (“CBS”). 
 
No assurance is provided regarding the financial performance of instruments issued via the Framework, 
the value of any investments, or the long-term environmental benefits of the transaction. DNV’s objective 
has been to provide an assessment that the Framework has met the criteria established on the basis set 
out below. 
 
Responsibilities of the Management of FleetPartners and DNV 
The management of FleetPartners has provided the information and data used by DNV during the delivery 
of this review. Our statement represents an independent opinion and is intended to inform FleetPartners’ 
management and other interested stakeholders in the Framework as to whether the Framework is aligned 
with the GBP. In our work we have relied on the information and the facts presented to us by FleetPartners. 
DNV is not responsible for any aspect of the nominated assets referred to in this opinion and ca nnot be 
held liable if estimates, findings, opinions, or conclusions are incorrect. Thus, DNV shall not be held liable 
if any of the information or data provided by FleetPartners’ management and used as a basis for this 
assessment were not correct or complete. 
 
 
Page 3 of 8 
 
   
 
Basis of DNV’s Opinion 
DNV has conducted the verification against the CBS V4.0 and associated Sector Technical Criteria through 
the creation and execution of a verification protocol addressing each requirement of the CBS V4.0 and the 
relevant technical criteria. The detail of areas covered in the DNV verification is summarised in Schedule 
2 below. 
DNV has conducted the verification against the GBP and relevant project criteria  in parallel to the CBS 
V4.0 Pre-Issuance Verification.  
Work Undertaken 
Our work constituted a high-level review of the available information, based on the understanding that 
this information was provided to us by FleetPartners in good faith. We have not performed an audit or 
other tests to check the veracity of the information provided to us. The work undertaken to form our 
opinion included: 
• Creation and execution of a Climate Bond s Standard Protocol, adapted to include the relevant 
Sector Technical Criteria for the Green ABS’s nominated projects and assets, as described above 
and in Schedule 2 to this Opinion; 
• Assessment of documentary evidence provided by FleetPartners on the Green ABS  and 
supplemented by a high-level desktop research,  
• Documentation of findings against each element of the criteria. Our opinion as detailed below is a 
summary of these findings. 
 
Findings and DNV’s Opinion 
DNV has performed the Pre-Issuance Verification of the Green ABS. It is DNV’s responsibility to provide 
an independent verification statement on the compliance of the Bonds with the Climate Bonds Standard 
V4.0 and the GBP dated 2022, collectively referred to as the Principles & Standards. 
DNV conducted the verification in accordance with the Principles & Standards  and with International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Information . The verification included i) checking whether the provisions of the Principles & 
Standards were consistently and appropriately applied and ii) the collection of evidence supporting the 
verification. 
DNV’s verification approach draws on an understanding of the risks associated with conforming with the 
Principles & Standards  and the controls in place to mitigate these. DNV planned and performed the 
verification by obtaining evidence and other information and explanations that DNV considers necessary 
to give limited assurance that the Framework, and other associated documentation, meet the requirements 
of the Principles & Standards. 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention that causes us 
to believe that the Green Bonds are not, in all material respects, in accordance with the Pre-Issuance 
requirements of the CBS, the associated Low Carbon Transportation sector criteria, and the GBP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
   
 
For DNV Business Assurance Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Sydney, Australia, 11th April 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thomas Leonard 
Assurance Reviewer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
David McCann 
Lead Verifier 
 
 Parina Mehta 
Verifier 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About DNV 
Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, DNV enables organisations to 
advance the safety and sustainability of their business. Combining leading technical and operational 
expertise, risk methodology and in-depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and 
actions with trust and confi dence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to 
provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With our origins stretching 
back to 1864, our reach today is global. Operating in more than 100 countries,  our 16,000 professionals 
are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. 

 
 
Page 5 of 8 
 
   
 
SCHEDULE 1: DESCRIPTION OF NOMINATED ASSETS  
 
CBS Sector Criteria Eligible Criteria and Description Location 
Low Carbon Transportation  
 
Eligible Assets that are automatically eligible: 
• Most fully electric, hydrogen, or other zero-direct emissions transport - including 
private vehicles, passenger trains, urban subway/metro, trams, and their directly 
supporting infrastructure. 
 
Australia 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
   
 
SCHEDULE 2: CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD VERIFICATION CRITERIA 
Summary criteria for assertions of compliance with the Climate Bonds Standard V4.0 
A full verification is provided in the associated Verification protocol. 
The criteria against which FleetPartners and its nominated projects & assets have been reviewed prior to inclusion in the Bonds are grouped under the 
requirements as detailed within the CBS including: 
Part A: Pre-Issuance Requirements  
1. Area 2. Requirement 
3. Use of Proceeds 4. Nominated projects & assets which are proposed to be associated with the Bonds and which have been assessed as 
eligible activities under the CBS related Sector Criteria 
5. Project Selection  6. Establish, document and maintain a decision -making process which it uses to determine the eligibility of the 
Nominated Projects & Assets 
7. Management of Proceeds 8. The systems, policies and processes to be used for management of the Net Proceeds shall be documented by the 
Issuer 
9. Reporting Prior to Issuance  Issuer shall prepare a Green Financing Framework and make it available prior to Issuance or at the time of issuance 
to lenders 
Reporting Reporting on use of proceeds and nominated projects and assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
   
 
Part B: Post-Issuance Requirements 
Use of Proceeds 1. Nominated Projects & Assets which are proposed to be associated with the Bonds and which have been 
assessed as likely to be Eligible Projects & Assets  
2. Project Selection  3. Establish, document and maintain a decision -making process which it uses to determine the eligibility of the 
Nominated Projects & Assets  
4. Management of Proceeds 5. The systems, policies and processes to be used for management of the Net Proceeds shall be documented by the 
Issuer  
6. Reporting 7. Reporting on use of proceeds and nominated projects and assets 
 
Part C: Eligible Projects and Physical Assets 
Nominated projects and assets include financing or refinancing of or investments in equipment and systems which enable the mitigation of greenhouse gases, as 
detailed in Schedule 1. 
Climate Bonds Standard Sector 
Criteria 
Eligible Criteria and Description 
Low Carbon Transport Automotive financing products (operating, novated and finance leases) for new or used motor vehicles or 
Motorised Equipment, including:  
• Battery Electric Vehicle; 
• Battery Electric Vehicle + Range Extender; 
• Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle;  
• Hybrid Electric Vehicle where the combined tailpipe emissions are less than 50 grams of CO2 per 
kilometre (“Low Emission Vehicles”); or 
• Electric Motorised Equipment. 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
   
 
 
Part D: Certification under the Climate Bonds Standard 
 
1. Area 2. Requirement 
3. Pre-Issuance Certification 4. The Issuer of a Climate Bonds Standard Certification must satisfy the Pre-Issuance Certification requirements 
including the completion of all forms, Pre-Issuance Verification by an approved verifier and provision of relevant 
information 
5. Post-Issuance Certification 6. The Issuer of a Climate Bonds Standard Certification must satisfy the Post-Issuance Certification requirements 
including the completion of all forms, Post-Issuance Verification by an approved verifier and provision of relevant 
information 
7. Maintaining Certification 8. The Issuer shall provide annual reporting to the CBI and comply with non-conformance correction as required