Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
 
  
Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 
GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 
MAY 2025 

1 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
 
Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Green Bond Framework 
 
Contents 
1 Introduction ................................ ................................ ............ 2 
2 Framework Overview ................................ .............................. 5 
2.1 Use of Proceeds ................................ ................................ .............. 5 
2.2 Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ................................  12 
2.3 Management of Proceeds ................................ ............................  14 
2.4 Reporting ................................ ................................ ..................... 14 
3 External review ................................ ................................ ..... 16 
 
 
  
2 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
1 Introduction 
Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“Mizuho FG”) is a Japanese bank holding company that is the 
ultimate parent of the group (“Mizuho Group”), one of the largest financial groups in the 
world. Mizuho Group provides a broad range of financial services in domestic and overseas 
markets. 
Mizuho recognizes that supporting our clients’ efforts to respond to climate change and 
transition to a decarbonized society is an important role for financial institutions to play. We 
are supporting our clients’ sustainability transformation (SX) by leveraging Mizuho’s strengths 
in expertise on industries and technologies, and capability of liaison within and outside of 
Mizuho and finance arrangement capability. Specifically, we aim to strengthen Japanese 
industries’ competitiveness and balance economic and social value by leading structural 
transformation of industries toward decarbonization through supporting our clients’ steady 
transitions toward 2030 and future-oriented clients’ actions. 
 
In order to capture business opportunities associated with the transition to a decarbonized 
society, Mizuho provides consistent support to our clients from both financial and non-
financial perspectives to restructure business portfolios, transform supply chains, and work 
Mizuho’s strengths
Liasion within and outside 
of Mizuho Finance arrangementExpertise on 
Industry and technology
2030年に向けた着実なトランジション支援
Industry, Government, and Finance Collaboration
Business portfolio restructuring and
supply chain transformations
Deploying new technologies
Enhancing our sustainable finance arrangement 
capability
Product and business development by co-working within 
the group and with outside parties
Supporting business and technology development
Cross industrial and supply chain collaboration with stakeholders
Key topics toward sustainable society and economy
Hydrogen ImpactCarbon credits
Transition Investment Facility 
(Development/Demonstration phase)
Value Co-creation investment 
(Commercialization phase)
Supporting client’s steady transitions toward 2030
Supporting future-oriented clients’ actions 
Strengthen
Japanese 
Competitive-
ness
Balancing 
economic 
and 
social value
Mizuho’s vision 
for the world 
(our long-term 
goal for the
future)
Personal well-being 
&
a sustainable 
society and 
economy

3 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
toward social implementation of next-generation technologies that will lead to future 
industrial structural transformations. Our support covers from issue recognition, strategy 
formulation, its embodiment and commercialization, to financing during the execution stage. 
 
  
Mizuho believes that, especially with regard to sustainable finance, it is an important role for 
financial institutions to generate further money flows to meet the massive demand for climate 
change financing. Given this, Mizuho has set a sustainable finance target of JPY 100 trillion, of 
which JPY 50 trillion is earmarked for environment and climate-related finance (cumulative 
total over the period of FY2019 through to FY2030). 
We have steadily built up a track record by assessing our clients’ issues and needs accurately – 
arranging a total of JPY 31.0 trillion for sustainable finance between FY2019 and FY2023 (of 
which JPY 14.0 trillion was environment and climate-related finance). Mizuho has showed a 
strong presence in the sustainable finance area, holding the No.1 position for five successive 
years in league table of domestic publicly offered SDGs bonds. We will continue to proactively 
provide green/transition financing and risk money for practical applications of technologies to 
our clients who are taking on the challenge of decarbonization with us.  
 
Climate change 
responses by clients
Financing
Strategy 
formulation
Issue 
recognition
Strategy 
execution
• ESG issue/ materiality analysis
• Studies on environmental and energy technologies
• Measurement / visualization of supply-chain GHG emissions
• Provision of economic, industrial, and environmental insights        etc
• Sustainability management/company-wide strategy planning
• Business restructuring planning
• Circular economy strategies
• Business / partner matching
• Adoption of renewable energy
• Development & adoption of next-generation fuels
• Environmental and climate-related finance
- Including Proprietary Mizuho products / Transition Investment       
Facility / Value Co-creation investments
• M&A advisory
Solutions provided by Mizuho
Non-financialFinancial
Issue identification
Provide hypotheses
Support for strategy planning 
on climate change responses
Support for strategy execution 
on climate change responses
Financing
M&As, etc.
• Carbon offsetting
• CCUS study
• Disclosure      etc
• Decarbonization strategies
• Natural capital responses   etc
• Leasing                            etc
Sustainable finance progress League table
No. 1
Sustainable finance (loans) Publicly offered 
SDGs bonds
Source: Capital Eye
No. 1
(April 2023 to March 2024)■ Total amount of environment and climate-related finance
(in JPY trillions, total cumulated amount since FY2019)
(April 2023 to March 2024)
JapanGlobal
Sustainable finance
JPY 100 trillion
Environment and 
climate-related finance
JPY 50 trillion
FY2030 target
(Among 
Japanese 
banks)
Source: LSEG
13.1
21.2
31.0
4.6 8.1 14.0
FY21 FY22 FY23
Five
successive
years
4 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
The initiatives that Mizuho has participated in can be found at the link below: 
https://www.mizuhogroup.com/sustainability/mizuhosustainability/management/initiative 
  
5 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
2 Framework Overview 
In order to further accelerate its environmental initiatives, Mizuho FG plans to issue Green 
Bonds to finance lending to qualifying environment-related projects (“Eligible Green Projects”). 
While the issuing entity will be Mizuho FG, the entity that will manage lending to Eligible Green 
Projects will be Mizuho Bank (“Mizuho BK”). All of the existing and new projects to be financed 
and/or refinanced through the net proceeds of the Green Bond must be eligible under the Use 
of Proceeds criteria below. 
Green Bonds are dedicated bonds whose proceeds are ear-marked and will be exclusively 
applied to finance and/or refinance Eligible Green Projects. The Green Bond Framework has 
been prepared in line with the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2021 (with June 2022 
Appendix 1) (“GBP”) administered by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA). The 
GBP are voluntary process guidelines that recommend transparency and disclosure and 
promote integrity in the development of the Green Bond market by clarifying the approach for 
issuance of a Green Bond. 
 
2.1 Use of Proceeds 
An amount equal to the net proceeds of Green Bonds will be used to finance and/or refinance 
existing and/or new Eligible Green Projects, in whole or in part, as defined by Mizuho FG’s 
internal investment criteria.  
Eligible Green Projects will meet ALL of the conditions below. 
i) A project meets one or more of the Eligible Project Categories 1 to 9 below. 
ii) A loan for a project has been financed by Mizuho BK within 24 months preceding the issue 
date of a relevant Green Bond, or will be newly financed on or after the issue date thereof. 
 
Project category Project types SDGs 
1. Renewable 
Energy 
 Development, construction and operation of 
Renewable Energy 
 The development, construction and operation 
of renewable energy facilities which generate 
7 
6 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
wind, solar, solar thermal, biomass energy1 
(restricted to sustainable feedstock and/or 
waste sources), geothermal energy2, and small 
hydro facilities3. 
 Development and production of technologies and 
equipment used for the above projects 
 Transmission and distribution of renewable energy 
 Development and construction of any of the 
following operational electric grids: 
(i) Projects for connecting renewable energy to 
power grids; or 
(ii) Where renewable power accounts for 90% 
or more of the power supported or integrated 
by the project, including: 
✓ Overground transmission/distribution 
lines, for example, overhead transmission 
lines, conductors, insulators, towers, and 
infrastructure assets such as buildings, 
fences, earth mats, and busbars. 
✓ Transmission lines on high-voltage and/or 
extra-high-voltage interconnected 
systems. 
 Distributed assets that are intended to reduce 
the curtailment of renewable energy into the 
grid (grid components) including fuses, circuit 
breakers, disconnectors, reactors, capacitors, 
transformers, voltage regulators, switchgears. 
 
1 Limited to sustainable feedstock and/or waste sources. For projects using wood or wood pellets, the 
feedstock will be limited to those provided by wood suppliers or power generators certified by the 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or PEFC (Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification). Projects 
using waste from palm oil operations will be limited to waste from palm oil suppliers  that are certified 
by RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) or RSB (Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials). Non -
waste materials will be limited to the feedstock having less than 100g CO2e/kWh of lifecycle GHG 
emissions intensity. 
2 Limited to the projects that have direct GHG emissions intensity of less than 100g CO2e/kWh 
3 Limited to 1) run-of-river power facilities which are without artificial reservoir or with low storage 
capacity, 2) projects that have lifecycle GHG emissions intensity of less than 50g CO2e/kWh (for facilities 
in operation by the end of 2019, less than 100g CO2e/kWh), 3) projects that have power density 
exceeding 10W/m² (for facilities in operation by the end of 2019, exceeding 5W/m²). For all new 
hydropower projects, an environmental and social impact assessment by a credible body is required per 
project and the absence of significant risks and controversies associated with the projects needs to be 
ensured. 
7 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
2. Pollution 
Prevention and 
Control 
 Waste recycling and waste-to-energy4 
 The development, construction and operation 
of pollution prevention and control facilities, 
such as waste recycling and waste-to-energy 
power plants. The sources of energy will be 
household waste, commercial waste, or 
market waste which will not include 
plastics/rubber/tire-derived fuel (TDFs) to 
energy/fuel conversion, gas capture from 
operational landfills, and landfill gas capture 
for flaring. 
 Reduction of air emissions 
 Greenhouse gas control 
 Ocean-friendly chemicals and plastics-related 
sectors 
 Projects to prevent plastics, chemicals or 
pollutants runoff in areas connected to rivers 
or coastal water basins 
 Sustainable shipping and port logistics sectors 
 Projects for the development, manufacturing, 
construction, upgrading, operation and trading 
of technologies, products, infrastructure and 
systems for the control and reduction of 
contaminated water, waste and discharge by 
vessels, shipyards and ports. 
12 
3. Clean 
Transportation 
 Investments in passenger cars, mass transport and 
other infrastructure 
 Projects to develop, operate and upgrade 
public transportation facilities (non-fossil fuel 
based), infrastructure and technologies 
including expansion and improvements of rail 
transport, non-motorized transport (such as 
bicycles), multi-modal transport, and 
manufacturing of electric vehicles5. 
 Maritime transport/port logistics 
11 
 
4 Where the waste is managed in accordance with the waste hierarchy. Projects for Waste -to-Energy will 
follow CBI criteria. Only facilities outside the EU are potentially eligible. Plant efficiency >= 25%; AND 
Bottom ash recovery; AND >= 90% recovery of metal from ash; AND Average carbon intensity of 
electricity and/or heat over the life of the plant <= waste management allowance; AND capacity of the 
plant does not exceed the calculated residual waste at any time in the plant’s life.  
5 Projects such as electrified locomotives, trains, metro, interurban high -speed rail, mass rapid transit, 
and light rail transit (LRT) projects are limited to those with zero direct CO2 emissions. For freight rail, 
lines and operations where fossil fuels account for more than 25% of total freight volume (tkm) are 
excluded. 
8 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
 Projects for the production of new low-carbon 
or zero-carbon vessels powered by electricity 
with an average GHG emissions intensity of 
less than 100g CO2e/kWh, biofuel6 or green 
hydrogen/green ammonia. 
 Project for the conversion of existing 
passenger and cargo vessels to low-carbon 
vessels as described above. 
 Projects for marine infrastructure, including 
facilities to refuel biofuels, hydrogen, 
ammonia, methanol, etc., as well as 
infrastructure for alternative maritime power, 
such as electrical outlets, electrical distribution 
and control systems. 
4. Green Buildings  Buildings which have received or will receive during 
the life of the Green Bond at least one of the 
following classifications. Net proceeds of the Green 
Bond may be allocated towards new and existing 
loans from Mizuho BK to eligible green buildings 
with certifications as defined below, including the 
ones owned by J-REITs (Japanese Real Estate 
Investment Trusts)7 
 LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design):  LEED Platinum or Gold 
 BREEAM (Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method): BREEAM 
Outstanding or Excellent 
 CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System 
for Built Environment Efficiency): CASBEE S 
Rank or A Rank 
 DBJ Green Building Certification: DBJ Green 
Building 5 Star or 4 Star 
 BELS (Building-Housing Energy-efficiency 
Labelling System) (2016 version): BELS 5 Star 
or 4 Star 
 BELS (Building-Housing Energy-efficiency 
Labelling System) (2024 version): (Non-
residential) Level 4 or higher, (Residential with 
renewable energy facilities) Level 4 or higher, 
(Residential without renewable energy 
facilities) Level 3 or higher 
 ZEB, Nearly ZEB, ZEB Ready and ZEB Oriented / 
ZEH, Nearly ZEH, ZEH Ready and ZEH Oriented 
9 
 
6 Biomass energy criteria as defined in the Renewable Energy category of this framework  
7 Allocation amounts to eligible green buildings owned by J-REITs may be calculated based on pro-rata 
share of eligible green buildings’ acquisition cost. 
9 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
( all of which represents the same or higher 
level of performance compared to BELS 5 Star) 
 A building that aligns with a regional proxy 
(numerical scale) as determined by the Climate 
Bonds Initiative (CBI) for commercial buildings 
 Building upgrades, including energy-efficiency 
investments and/or building retrofits in line with a 
low-carbon trajectory based on the duration of the 
bond, as set out in the Low Carbon Buildings 
Standard as determined by the CBI (reduction of 
CO2 emissions by at least 30% to the baseline) 
5. Energy Efficiency 
 
 End-user energy efficiency projects that result in a 
minimum 30% energy efficiency improvement 
including: 
 Projects that have obtained a third-party 
certification (especially, ENERGY STAR) for 
environmental and energy performance in the 
purchase, installation and retrofitting of 
energy-efficient technologies, products or 
equipment that do not use motors or are 
powered by electricity (not by fossil fuels). 
 Projects for upgrading energy-efficient 
technologies, products or hardware systems, 
such as fossil-fuel-free LED, smart lighting 
solutions, sunlight controls, Building 
Management Systems (BMS), air conditioning 
and heating systems. 
7 
6. Sustainable 
Water and 
Wastewater 
Management 
 Projects which result in at least a 20% energy 
efficiency improvement or a 20% water efficiency 
improvement through reduced leakage 
 Water supply 
 Projects for the development, construction, 
acquisition, operation and upgrading of water 
supply infrastructure with water-saving 
effects. 
 Projects for the development, construction, 
acquisition, operation and renovation of 
desalination plants8. 
 Projects for the development, manufacturing 
and trading of products and technologies to 
increase the supply and access to potable / 
drinking water. 
6 
 
8 The desalination will be limited to the projects which 1) have an appropriate waste management plan 
for brine disposal at the start of the project, 2) are powered by renewable energy or electricity with an 
average carbon intensity of 100g CO2e/kWh or less, 3)Integrated Water and Power Plants (IWPP) are 
excluded. 
10 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
 Projects for the development, manufacturing 
and trading of technologies, equipment and 
systems that reduce and/or monitor water 
footprints. 
 Water sanitation  
 Projects for the development, construction, 
operation and upgrading of water treatment 
infrastructure. 
 Projects for the development and 
manufacturing of technologies, products and 
systems that enhance the efficiency and 
effectiveness of water treatment 
infrastructure. 
7. Environmentally 
Sustainable 
Management of 
Living Natural 
Resources and 
Land Use 
 Forest products: Growing and/or purchase of: 
 Products or projects certified by the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) or the Program for 
the Endorsement of Forest Certification 
(PEFC). 
 Agriculture: Growing and/or purchase of: 
 Products or projects certified by Rainforest 
Alliance, or USDA Organic. 
 Land preservation: 
 Preservation and/or restoration of native 
forests and high-conservation value forests. 
 Soil remediation. 
 Value chains for fisheries, aquaculture and seafood  
products 
 Land-based aquaculture production. 
 Research, development, operation and trading 
related to cultivation businesses of algae and 
marine micro-organisms. 
 Fisheries and aquaculture that meet the 
Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) 
certification standard, Aquaculture 
Stewardship Council (ASC) certification 
standard, Marine Eco-Label Japan (MEL) 
certification standard, or investments to meet 
the above standards. 
 Production and trading of marine products 
with MSC, ASC or MEL labels. 
 Distribution, processing or retailing businesses 
that meet CoC certification standard of MSC, 
ASC or MEL certification standard, or 
investments to meet the above standards. 
14, 15 
8. Terrestrial and 
Aquatic 
Biodiversity 
Conservation 
 Biodiversity Conservation 
 Conservation and/or restoration of 
biodiversity and valuable natural habitats. 
14, 15 
11 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
 Conservation and/or restoration of 
biodiversity in urban areas. 
 Conservation and restoration of marine and other 
ecosystems 
 Development, operation and trading of 
services, technologies and systems for the 
conservation, improvement and restoration of 
marine, coastal and river ecosystems. 
9. Circular Economy 
Adapted 
Products, 
Production 
Technologies and 
Processes 
 Development, construction and operation of 
hydrogen and ammonia supply chain establishment 
(manufacturing, storage, transportation, and 
usage) 
 The carbon intensity standards for the 
manufacturing of hydrogen and ammonia are 
set at Well to Gate: hydrogen at 3.4 kg-
CO2e/kg-H2 and ammonia at 0.87 kg-CO2e/kg-
NH3 (based on the requirements for “low-
carbon hydrogen, etc” as defined by Japan's 
Hydrogen Society Promotion Act). For the 
avoidance of doubt, "low-carbon hydrogen 
etc." includes hydrogen / ammonia produced 
via electrolysis from renewable energy, and 
hydrogen / ammonia produced via steam 
methane reforming coupled with CCUS 
(Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage). 
 Development and production of technologies and 
equipment used for the above projects 
 Development of technologies, construction and 
operation of facilities and transportation of 
captured CO2 related to DAC (Direct Air Capture) 
and CCUS.  
 Only projects with capture efficiency design of 
90% or higher are eligible. Projects for the 
purpose of Enhanced Oil Recovery activities 
are excluded.  
 Development and production of technologies 
and equipment used for the above projects 
13 
 
For long-dated green assets that are refinanced by proceeds of multiple Green Bonds, Mizuho 
FG will disclose the age and remaining useful life of the assets to an independent party prior to 
the initial issuance of the Green Bonds from this Green Bond Framework and update the 
information when such independent party provides an annual review as described below. The 
information provided will be supported by a review from such independent party to confirm 
the continuous environmental benefits of the long-dated assets. 
12 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
For clarification purposes, the following are excluded from the Green Bond Framework: fossil 
fuel based assets, fossil fuel based transportation/infrastructure and transportation with the 
main objective of transporting fossil fuel, defense and security, palm oil, wood pulp, nuclear 
power generation, coal-fired power generation as well as all mining and tobacco sectors. 
Regarding our Environmental and Social Management Policy for Financial Activities to mitigate 
and avoid adverse impacts of financing and investment on the environment and society, please 
see the link below for details: 
https://www.mizuhogroup.com/sustainability/business-activities/investment 
 
2.2 Process for Project Evaluation and Selection  
Eligible Green Projects are evaluated and selected based on compliance with the Eligibility 
Criteria above. Eligible Green Projects are identified and selected via a process that involves 
participants from various functional areas including Mizuho BK’s Real Estate Finance 
Department, Project Finance Department and Sustainable Products Promotion Department, 
Mizuho FG’s Corporate & Investment Banking Coordination Department, Global Markets 
Coordination Department and Financial Planning Department.   
 
Process to mitigate environmental and social risk 
Mizuho Group leverages its financial intermediary and consulting capabilities in order to 
proactively develop and offer financial products and services which support the environmental 
initiatives of corporations and other clients. In doing so, we aim to maximize positive impacts 
and avoid or mitigate negative impacts on the environment. We make decisions on financing 
and investments after examining the recognized risks based on our Environmental and Social 
Management Policy for Financial Activities, and with clients, we discuss (engage) medium- to 
long-term environment and social issues. We will revise our policy as needed. 
For all project finance related business, Mizuho BK’s Project Finance Department or other 
relevant departments evaluate financial viability of projects in accordance with internal credit 
evaluation process. For any large-scale development projects which have the potential to 
impact the natural environment and local communities, the Sustainable Development Office of 
Mizuho BK’s Sustainable Products Promotion Department (Sustainable Development Office) 
13 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
reviews projects and conducts the required due diligence in light of the Equator Principles, and 
categorizes projects as Category A, B or C9 based on its internal environmental and social risk 
assessment process. Such categorization is based on the environmental and social 
categorization process of the International Finance Corporation, complying with the Equator 
Principles. As a part of this process, Mizuho BK evaluates a project for minimal, limited or 
significant potential adverse environmental and social impact. For each project where limited 
or significant risk is identified, Mizuho BK’s internal process requires the Sustainable 
Development Office to work in partnership with its clients to assess and manage these 
environmental and social risks and impacts in order to ensure that a project is implemented 
with full consideration of its impact on the natural environment and local communities.  
For Eligible Project Category 4(Green Buildings), a project is certified to a certain level such as 
by “LEED”, “BREEAM”, “CASBEE”, “DBJ Green Building Certification”, “BELS” or aligns with CBI 
criteria. 
Mizuho’s responsible financing and investment can be found at the link below: 
https://www.mizuhogroup.com/sustainability/business-activities/investment 
 
Selection of Eligible Green Projects 
As for the selection process of Eligible Green Projects, based on the list of finances offered by 
Mizuho BK, Mizuho FG’s Corporate & Investment Banking Coordination Department and 
others draft the list of Eligible Green Projects. Candidate projects, that are suited to any of 
Project Categories 1 to 9 above, and those that meet condition ii) above will be proposed by 
Mizuho FG’s Corporate & Investment Banking Coordination Department and others. Finally, 
Mizuho FG’s Global Markets Coordination Department and Financial Planning Department will 
select Eligible Green Projects from the candidate projects list. 
 
 
9  According to the Equator Principles, Category A projects are defined as projects with potential 
significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or 
unprecedented. Category B projects have potential limited adverse environmental and social risks 
and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site specific, largely reversible and readily addressed 
through mitigation measures. Category C projects have minimal or no adverse environmental and social 
risks and/or impacts. 
14 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
2.3 Management of Proceeds  
An amount equal to the net proceeds from the sale of a specific issue of Green Bond will be 
loaned to Mizuho BK and allocated by Mizuho BK to the financing and/or refinancing of 
existing and/or new Eligible Green Projects. So long as that tranche of Green Bond remains 
outstanding, Mizuho FG will keep the list of all Eligible Green Project loans based on Mizuho 
BK’s internal loan data system and its output, and such records of that list will show an amount 
equal to the net proceeds from the issuance of such bond as allocated to the assets that meet 
Mizuho FG’s internal investment criteria for Eligible Green Projects. Pending the allocation of 
the net proceeds of such bond to finance Eligible Green Projects, the net proceeds will be 
invested in overnight or otherwise short-term financial instruments and will be allocated to 
Eligible Green Projects as soon as practicably possible. 
Payment of principal of and interest on the Green Bond will be made from Mizuho FG’s 
general funds and will not be directly linked to the performance of any Eligible Green Projects.  
Mizuho FG will review and update the Eligible Green Projects to which the net proceeds of the 
Green Bond are allocated on an annual basis. Any proceeds allocated to projects that have 
been sold, prepaid, amortized or otherwise become ineligible shall be reallocated to other 
Eligible Green Projects.  
 
 
2.4 Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
During the term of any Green Bonds, Mizuho FG will provide and keep readily available, on a 
designated website10, information on the allocation of the net proceeds of those bonds, to be 
updated at least annually until full allocation and as necessary thereafter in the event of new 
developments. This information will include:  
(i) the allocation of the net proceeds of those bonds to Eligible Green Projects, brief 
description of the Eligible Green Projects funded, current funded amounts, and funding dates, 
and  
 
10 https://www.mizuhogroup.com/sustainability/environment/business/greenbond  
15 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
(ii) assertions by management that the net proceeds of those bonds are invested either in 
qualifying Eligible Green Projects or in overnight or other short-term financial instruments.  
Independent party will provide an annual review on the allocation of the use of proceeds as 
well as impact reporting to review that allocation and reporting is aligned with the framework.  
 
Environmental Impact Reporting 
Mizuho FG intends to report, on a best efforts basis, on the impact of Eligible Green Projects, 
to be updated at least annually until full allocation and as necessary thereafter in the event of 
new developments. All impact reporting (as and when feasible and available) will be disclosed 
on an aggregate basis, by eligible Project Category.   
 
Impact reporting Exemplary Metrics 
No Project Category Impact reporting Exemplary Metrics 
1 Renewable Energy  Tonnes of CO2 equiv. reduced/avoided 
p.a.  
 Annual energy generation 
2 Pollution Prevention and Control   Amount of waste recovered, reduced, 
or recycled 
 Reuse and recycling rates 
 Percentage of change in the amount of 
waste generated 
 Water pollution abatement in m3 and %  
 Air pollution abatement in m3 and %  
3 Clean Transportation   Tonnes of CO2 equiv. reduced/avoided 
p.a.  
 Amount of air pollutants reduced 
 Total distance of infrastructure 
4 Green Buildings  Number and level of green building 
certifications acquired 
5 Energy Efficiency  Tonnes of CO2 equiv. reduced/avoided 
p.a.  
 Annual energy savings 
 Number and types of environmental 
certifications obtained 
 Number of energy-saving equipment 
and products installed 
6 Sustainable Water and Wastewater 
Management 
 Annual water savings in m3 and %  
 Tonnes of CO2 equiv. reduced/ avoided 
p.a. by water savings 
16 
Green Bond Framework｜Mizuho Financial Group｜ 
 The number of people benefiting from 
water management 
7 Environmentally Sustainable 
Management of Living Natural Resources 
and Land Use 
 Number and types of environmental 
certifications obtained 
8 Terrestrial and Aquatic Biodiversity 
Conservation 
 Number and types of environmental 
certifications obtained 
 The area of land covered by the project 
and the rate of increase in the area of 
conservation 
9 Circular Economy Adapted Products, 
Production Technologies and Processes 
 Tonnes of CO2 equiv. reduced/avoided 
p.a.  
 Annual energy generation 
 Number of DAC/CCUS projects 
supported and the associated annual 
GHG emissions stored (tCO2e) 
 
3 External review 
Mizuho FG has obtained a Second Party Opinion by Moody’s Japan, to confirm the 
transparency and robustness of Mizuho Financial Group Green Bond Framework. The Second 
Party Opinion will be published on Mizuho FG’s webpage.