Green Bond Framework 
 
May 6, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
 
 
Table of Contents 
CPP Investments’ Sustainability Strategy ..................................................................................... 2 
2024 CPP Investments’ Green Bond Framework......................................................................... 3 
I. Use of Proceeds ................................ ................................ ................................ .................. 3 
II.  Process for Investment Evaluation and Selection ................................ ................................ ...4 
III.  Management of Proceeds ................................ ................................ ................................ ....4 
IV.  Transparency, Reporting and Verification ................................ ................................ ............. 4 
Appendix A – Eligible Green Categories................................ ................................ ..................... 6 
Appendix B – Illustrative Impact Metrics ................................ ................................ ................... 7 
Appendix C – Disclaimer................................ ................................ ................................ ........... 8 
 
  
2 
 
 
CPP Investments’ Sustainability Strategy 
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, which operates as CPP Investments, is a global investment 
management organization. We were established to help the Canada Pension Plan  remain financially 
sustainable for the long term. We prudently invest the amounts transferred to us by the Canada Pension 
Plan, helping to provide a foundation on which Canadians can build financial security in retirement. 
At CPP Investments, sustainable investing means anticipating and managing sustainability-related material 
business risks and opportunities, including climate change, when they are material to the investment. We 
define sustainability -related factors as those including, but not limited to: effective board governance; 
climate change; environment; equity, diversity and inclusion; health and safety; community engagement; 
human rights; responsible sourcing and deplo yment of artificial intelligence; and data and cyber 
security.  Our approach to sustainable investing is an important component of our investment strategy, 
designed to fulfil our mandate of maximizing returns without un due risk of loss, taking into account the 
factors that may affect the funding of the Canada Pension Plan and its ability to meet its financial obligations. 
Through this approach we aim to make better informed investment decisions and create long-term value in 
the best interests of the Canada Pension Plan Fund’s more than 21 million contributors and beneficiaries. 
We believe that climate change represents a significant risk and investment opportunity for the CPP Fund 
as the whole economy transitions in line with sovereign climate commitments. To this end, we seek to factor 
in a broad range of climate change -related risks and opportunities as part of our investment strategy and 
total portfolio design. Our diversified investment strategy affords CPP Investments the flexibility to invest 
across asset classes and into all types of climate change-related opportunities.  
Our approach to climate change underlies our own commitment to achieve net zero emissions across all 
scopes by 2050, in both our portfolio and operations. Our commitment is made on the basis and with the 
expectation that the global community will continue to advance towards the goal of achieving net-zero 
emissions by 2050. These advancements include the acceleration and fulfilment of corporate targets, 
changes in consumer and corporate behaviours, and development of global reporting standards and carbon 
markets, all of which will be necessary for us to meet our commitment. 
Key Links 
To supplement this framework, please refer to the following materials that provide additional context and 
detail regarding CPP Investments’ approach to managing sustainability-related material business risks and 
opportunities, including climate change, for all investments, including Eligible Investments as defined in this 
Framework.   
• 2023 Annual Report 
• 2023 Report on Sustainable Investing 
• 2024 Policy on Sustainable Investing 
• 2024 Proxy Voting Principles and Guidelines 
 
 
3 
 
 
2024 CPP Investments’ Green Bond Framework 
CPP Investments’ Green Bond Framework (the Framework) is aligned with the International Capital Markets 
Association’s (ICMA) Green Bond Principles’ four core components: 
• Use of proceeds 
• Process for project evaluation and selection 
• Management of proceeds 
• Reporting and verification 
This Framework addresses each of the above components in support of CPP Investments ’ green financing 
initiatives. Eligible investments have additionally been mapped to the EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Activities 
and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (see Appendix A). 
I. Use of Proceeds 
An amount equivalent to net proceeds raised through a green bond issuance under this Framework will be 
used to  notionally finance investments (equity  or debt, in whole or in part) in new or existing CPP 
Investments’ assets (either companies or projects) based on the  eligibility criteria below, referred to as 
“Eligible Investments”.  Notional allocation of net proceeds to Eligible Investments will happen within one 
year of the green bond issuance date and will follow the process for investment evaluation and selection 
described in Section II below. 
Eligible Investments must meet the following criteria: 
➢ Companies: Eligible companies must derive at least 95% of their revenues from projects or operations 
that meet the eligibility criteria of one or more of the 'Eligible Green Categories’ listed below. 
➢ Projects: Eligible projects must meet the eligibility criteria of one or more of the ‘Eligible Green 
Categories’ listed below. Projects for companies that do not derive all revenue from ‘Eligible Green 
Categories’ may continue to be Eligible Investments if they form part of the company’s credible 
transition plan.  
Eligible Green Categories are: 
1) Renewable Energy 
2) Green Buildings 
3) Low Carbon/Clean Transportation 
4) Energy Efficiency 
See Appendix A for definitions and eligibility criteria for the se Eligible Green Categories. 
Eligible use  of net proceeds excludes direct  investments in fossil  fuel infrastructure. The  exclusion 
explicitly covers, but is not limited to, investments in fossil fueled transportation (including systems using 
hydrogen generated from fossil fuels, and bioenergy powered systems) and power generation; renewable 
energy that expands the capacity of oil and gas; and fuel switching (e.g., oil to gas) in building heating 
system retrofits.  
4 
 
 
II. Process for Investment Evaluation and Selection 
CPP Investments’ Sustainable Investment Committee (SIC) is responsible for approving Eligible Investments 
that have been assessed against criteria in this Framework.  If the SIC is satisfied that an Eligible Investment 
meets the applicable criteria, the  SIC may approve the  addition of the  Eligible Investment to CPP 
Investments’ Green Bond Register, which is included in the Green Bond Impact Report that is publicly 
available on the Green Bond section of CPP Investments’ website.  The SIC is also accountable for tracking 
and reporting approved Eligible Investments under this Framework, including notional allocation of net 
proceeds to approved Eligible Investments.  
The SIC is chaired by CPP Investments’ Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) and includes senior members from 
teams across the organization.   
III. Management of Proceeds 
Net proceeds from CPP Investments’ Green Bond issuance will be deposited in the general account and an 
amount equal to the net proceeds will be earmarked for notional allocation to Eligible Investments that have 
been approved by the SIC. Notional allocation of net proceeds will be on a portfolio basis, meaning they will 
be notionally allocated across all Eligible Investments in the Green Bond Register.  For clarity, any assets that 
are sold, terminated, or no longer meet eligibility criteria will be removed from the Green Bond Register. 
Pending notional allocation, an amount equal to unallocated net proceeds may be temporarily invested in 
cash, cash equivalents, and/or government securities. 
All relevant information regarding the issuance of green bonds and notional allocation of net proceeds to 
Eligible Investments will be recorded annually in the Green Bond Register , which is included in the Green 
Bond Impact Report that is made publicly available on the Green Bond section of CPP Investments’ website. 
The payment of principal and interest on any Green Bond issued by CPP Investments will be made from its 
general funds and will not be linked to the performance of any Eligible Investment on the Green Bond 
Register . 
IV.  Transparency, Reporting and Verification 
In respect of any outstanding green bonds, CPP Investments will report annually on notional allocation of 
net proceeds and associated impact, where feasible, for the preceding 12 months. CPP Investments will use 
a portfolio approach in its impact reporting methodology. 
The information will be published annually in the Green Bond Impact Report on the Green Bond section of 
CPP Investments’ website. Highlights will be included in CPP Investments' annual Report on Sustainable 
Investing. The first report will be published within one year of green bond issuance and every year thereafter 
until the applicable green bonds have been repaid.  The Green Bond Register , included in the Green Bond 
Impact Report, will include the following information: 
• Net proceeds generated under the Framework; 
• Notional allocation of net proceeds by eligible category; 
• A brief description of the investment where possible; 
• Breakdown of notional allocation of net proceeds between new and existing investments 
• Impact metrics by investment category, where feasible; 
• Outstanding amount of net proceeds at the end of the reporting period. 
5 
 
 
Impact metrics that may be used for eligible categories are included in Appendix B . 
On an annual basis, the notional allocation of net proceeds and impact metrics listed in the Green Bond 
Register will be verified by management attestation. An external verification of the notional allocation of net 
proceeds and, where feasible, impact metrics, will be carried out by an independent, qualified third- party 
on an annual basis until the applicable green bonds have been repaid . The results of the third-party 
verification will be made publicly available on CPP Investments' website, alongside the Framework and 
Report on Sustainable Investing . In the unlikely event that the external verification identifies notional 
allocations to projects that do not comply with this Framework, these projects will be removed from the 
Green Bond Register  and corresponding amounts will be notionally allocated to different assets  that comply 
with this Framework. 
CPP Investments is seeking a second party opinion for this Framework from S&P Global Ratings to verify 
alignment with ICMA's Green Bond Principles as well as provide expert insight into potential environmental 
impact of Eligible Investments. The second party opinion will be made publicly available on CPP Investments' 
website, alongside the Framework. If the Framework is substantially altered, an updated second party 
opinion will be procured. 
  
6 
 
 
Appendix A – Eligible Green Categories 
 
ICMA GBP Category Eligibility  Criteria (companies or projects) EU Taxonomy Mapping SDG Alignment  
Renewable 
Energy 
Acquisition, development, generation, 
transmission and distribution  of renewable 
energy including:  
▪ Wind power  (offshore and onshore) 
▪ Solar power  
▪ Green hydrogen  
Climate  change mitigation  
3.1 Manufacture of low 
carbon technologies  
4.1 Production  of Electricity  from Solar PV 
4.3 Production  of Electricity  from Wind 
Power  
SDG 7 
Green Buildings Purchase,  development  and/or redevelopment  
of properties that have received or are 
expected to receive at least one of the following 
green building  certifications:  
▪ Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) Gold or Platinum or equivalent 
levels  in other  certification  programs. 
Climate  change mitigation  
8.1 Construction  of new buildings  
8.2 Building  renovation  
8.4 Acquisition  and ownership  
SDG 11 
Low Carbon / Clean 
Transportation 
Development,  deployment  and operation of clean 
transportation assets including:  
▪ Private  transport: 
o Electric  or non-motorized  transport 
vehicles  
▪ Public  transport: 
o Electric or non -motorized public 
transportation  vehicles  and fleets 
o Supporting infrastructure such as 
walkways, bike  paths, and charging 
stations 
o Electrification  of existing  rail 
infrastructure  
Transportation  systems that rely on conventional 
fuels, hydrogen generated from fossil fuel(s)  
and/or bioenergy  are excluded  
Climate  change mitigation  
6.1 Passenger rail transport (interurban)  
6.3 Public  transport 
6.4 Infrastructure  for low 
carbon transport (land) 
6.5 Passenger cars and commercial 
vehicles  
SDG 11 
Energy Efficiency  Develop,  operate,  and maintain  renewable  energy 
battery storage  
Development, deployment and operation of 
technologies, products, or systems that provide 
significant improvements in energy efficiency 
(>30% per International Energy Agency and EU 
Taxonomy), examples  including  but not limited to: 
▪ Renewable energy -powered district heating  
and cooling  technologies,  Smart grids,  
sensors, load control  systems, grid 
connectors, renewable energy battery 
storage 
Investments that increase efficiency of fossil 
fueled  equipment  or power  plants are excluded  
Climate  mitigation  
4.10  Storage of electricity  
4.15  District  heating/Cooling  distribution  
SDG 7 
 
  
7 
 
 
Appendix B – Illustrative Impact Metrics 
 
ICMA GBP 
Category 
Example Environmental Impact Indicators 
Renewable 
Energy 
• Annual renewable  energy  generation  in MWh/GWh 
• Capacity of renewable  energy  constructed  or integrated  
Green 
Buildings 
• Percentage  of energy  use reduced/avoided  vs local baseline/building  code  
• Annual GHG emissions  reduced/avoided  in tonnes of CO2 equivalent  vs local 
baseline/baseline certification level  
• Amount of waste minimized,  reused  or recycled  
• Certification  standard: type of scheme  and certification  level  
Low Carbon / Clea n 
Tra ns porta tion 
• Annual GHG emissions  reduced/avoided  in tCO2e p.a. 
• Reduction of air pollutants, particulate matter (PM), sulphur oxides (SOx ), nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
carbon monoxide (CO), and non -methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs) 
• Number  of clean  vehicles  deployed  
• Kilometers of new or improved train lines/dedicated bus, BRT, LRT corridors, bicycle lanes 
Energy Efficiency  • Annual energy  savings in MWh/GWh (electricity)  and GJ/TJ (other energy  savings) 
• Annual GHG emissions  reduced/avoided  in tonnes of CO2 equivalent  
8 
 
 
Appendix C - Disclaimer  
This Green Bond Framework is provided for informational purposes only and is subject to change without 
notice. After the date of this document, neither CPP Investments nor CPPIB Capital Inc. assumes any 
responsibility or obligation to update or revise any statements in this document, regardless of whether those 
statements are affected by the results of new information, future events or otherwise. No representation or 
warranty, express or implied, is or will be made in relation to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of the 
information contained herein. No liability whatsoever is or will be accepted by CPP Investments or CPPIB 
Capital Inc. or any of their affiliates for any loss or damage howsoever arising out of or in connection with 
the use of, or reliance upon, the information contained in this document. Nothing in this document shall 
constitute, or form part of, an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy or subscribe for any security or 
other instrument of CPP Investments or CPPIB Capital Inc. or any of their affiliates, or as an invitation, 
recommendation or inducement to enter into any investment activity, and no part of this document shall 
form the basis of or be relied upon in connection with any contract, commitment, or investment decision 
whatsoever. Offers to sell, sales, solicitation of offers to buy or purchases of securities issued by CPPIB Capital 
Inc. and guaranteed by CPP Investments or any affiliate thereof may only be made or entered into pursuant 
to appropriate offering materials prepared and distributed in accordance with the laws, regulations, rules 
and market practices of the jurisdictions in which such offers, solicitations or sales may be made. Professional 
advice should be sought prior to any decision to invest in securities. This Green Bond Framework is not 
intended to constitute financial, legal, tax, investment, professional or expert advice. This material is not 
intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction where such distribution or use 
would be contrary to law or regulation. This Green Bond Framework may contain projections and forward- 
looking statements within the meaning of certain securities laws, including the “safe harbor” provisions of 
the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and any applicable Canadian securities 
legislation. Forward-looking statements contained in this document may include, but are not limited to, 
statements  regarding CPP Investments, CPPIB Capital Inc. and their respective affiliates and their future 
performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “believe”, “expect”, 
“foresee”, “forecast”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”, “goal”, “plan” and “project” and similar expressions 
of future or conditional verbs such as “will”, “may”, “should”, “could” or “would”. By their very nature, 
forward- looking statements require certain assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, 
which give rise to the possibility that predictions, forecasts, projections, expectations or conclusions will not 
prove to be accurate and that such assumptions may not be correct. Readers are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on these statements as a number of risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially 
from the expectations expressed in such forward -looking statements. Except as required by law, none of 
CPP Investments or CPPIB Capital Inc. or their respective affiliates undertakes to update any forward-looking 
statement that may be made from time to time in this document.