Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
  
 
Post-Issuance Requirements  
Use of Proceeds 
Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets   
Management of Proceeds 
Reporting 
 
Eligibility of Projects & Assets  
Climate Bonds Taxonomy  
Sector Eligibility Criteria  
 
Eurogrid GmbH 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report – October 2022 
 Green Bond.  The findings below are based on our 
assessment of the Green B ond, the related Nomi-
nated Projects & Assets and the Issuer’s internal sys-
tems and procedures in accordance w ith the Cli-
mate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 from the CBI. 
Nothing has come to  imug rating’s attention that causes us to be-
lieve that, in all material respects Eurogrid GmbH’s  2020 Green 
Bond is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s 
Post-Issuance Requirements. 
Eurogrid GmbH’s core business in the field of energy realised through its subsidiary 50Hertz 
Transmission GmbH (hereafter: “50Hertz”) and 50Hertz’s subsidiary 50Hertz Offshore GmbH 
(hereafter: “50Hertz Offshore”) includes, in particular, investments in e lectric utility assets and 
the provision of services for its cu stomers. Eurogrid GmbH issued its debut Green Bond in 2020  
under its debt issuance programme to fund green projects of 50Hertz Offshore.  
 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and the evidence obtained, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects Eurogrid’s 2020 
Green Bond is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pos t-Issuance Require-
ments. 
 
imug rating 
Hanover, 6 October 2022 
www.imug-rating.de/en   
 
In May 2020, Eurogrid GmbH  issued its debut Green 
Bond to (re)finance the projects from the category 
“Marine Renewables”. The Issuer has commissioned 
imug rating as an independent approved verifier of 
the Climate Bond Initiative (CBI) to provide the Post-
Issuance Verification with limited assurance of the  
© imug rating GmbH 
 
OPINION  
CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD v3.0 
 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 2 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
1. ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY  
 
This Verifier’s Report draws its conclusions from the following information: 
  
BASIC INFORMATION  
Legal name of the Issuer Eurogrid GmbH 
Unique name of the Bond EUR 750,000,000 1.113 percent. “Green” Unsecured and  
Unsubordinated Notes due 2032 
Identifier of the Bond ISIN: XS2171713006 
Verifier company name imug rating GmbH 
Period covered by the Verifier’s report From 5 September 2022 to 6 October 2022 
 
SCOPE OF WORK 
 
Eurogrid GmbH commissioned imug rating to prepare a Verifier’s Report for the post-issuance 
certification of its Green Bond by the Climate Bonds Initiative. The Climate Bonds certification 
process verifies compliance with the provisions of the Climate Bonds Standards issued by the 
CBI and obtains evidence for verification. 
 
INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL 
 
imug rating has carried out a verification of Eurogri d’s Green Bond, issued to finance two ma-
rine renewable energy transition projects, and has issued an independent opinion informing 
Eurogrid that the Green Bond conforms to the Post-Issuance requirements and the Marine Re-
newable Energy criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
 
imug rating has relied on the information and facts provided by Eurogrid in relation to the nom-
inated projects. imug rating is not responsible and cannot be held liable if the opinions, find-
ings or conclusions set out herein are incorrect due to inaccurate or incomplete data provided 
by Eurogrid. 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF EUROGRID 
 
Eurogrid is responsible for providing accurate information and documentation on the details 
of the funded projects, including the description of the projects and the amounts disbursed.  
 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF IMUG RATING 
 
imug rating conducted the verification in accordance with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 
3.0 and with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) – Assurance 
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information. 
 
The work undertaken as part of this engagement included interviews with relevant Eurogrid 
employees and review of relevant documentation to verify conformance of Eurogrid’s  Green 
Bond with the Post-Issuance Requirements (Part B and Part C) and the Marine Renewable En-
ergy criteria (dated October 2017) of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 3 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF THE REPORT 
 
The report of factual findings for Climate Bonds Certification including all documentation pro-
vided alongside is intended for the use of Eurogrid and the Climate Bonds Standard Board. The 
present document may be disseminated by Eurogrid, CBI and imug rating. CBI and imug rating 
agree to publish the report with the consent of Eurogrid. 
 
 
 
 
Markus Grünewald 
Head of Research – imug rating 
Hanover, 6 October 2022 
 
  
 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 4 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
2. BACKGROUND 
 
imug rating has been commissioned to provide a Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the May 
2020 Green Bond Issuance of Eurogrid GmbH (hereafter referred to as “Eurogrid”, “the Com-
pany” or “the Issuer”). The assessment of the Post-Issuance processes took into considera-
tion the requirements of Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 Post-Issuance Certification. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
imug rating conducted the assessment from the beginning of September to the the begin-
ning of October  2022. Eurogrid GmbH management provided all the relevant documents , 
and imug rating was in direct contact with the relevant employees. The information we re-
ceived has allowed us to provide a limited assurance opinion on the Issuer’ compliance with 
the above-mentioned guidelines.  
  
In May 2020, Eurogrid issued its debut Green 
Bond amounting to EUR 750 million and 
used the  proceeds of the issuance to (re)fi-
nance eligible projects in the category “Ma-
rine Renewable Energy” . The expansion of 
the national grid infrastructure through the 
offshore projects Ostwind 1 and Ostwind 2 
has enabled access to renewable energy and 
increased the number of connected house-
holds. This has contributed to the reduction 
and avoidance of CO2 emissions. 
 
The eligible projects ha ve been imple-
mented by the subsidiary 50Hertz Offshore 
GmbH. Both Ostwind  1 and Ostwind 2 pro-
jects fall under the “Marine Renewable En-
ergy” sector criteria of the Climate Bonds 
Standard. 
 
Headquartered in Berlin, Eurogrid GmbH is a 
German company whose shares are divided 
between the Eurogrid International SA/NV 
(80 percent), which is a subsidiary of the Bel-
gian Elia Group SA/NV, and the German 
Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau  (KfW; 20 per-
cent). Eurogrid invests in electric utility as-
sets and, through its subsidiary 50Hertz, pro-
vides support services to its customers. 
 
 
50Hertz Transmission GmbH is a wholly  
owned subsidiary of Eurogrid GmbH. As one 
out of four transmission system operators in 
Germany, 50Hertz is responsible for the op-
eration, maintenance, pl anning and expan-
sion of the 380/220 kilovolt transmission grid 
in the German  Federal S tates of Thuringia, 
Saxony, Saxony -Anhalt, Brandenburg, Ber-
lin, Mecklenburg -Western Pomerania and 
Hamburg. The German federal regulator 
“Bundesnetzagentur” (Federal Network 
Agency) regulates the Company. The C om-
pany’s electricity grid has a total length of 
approximately 10,000 kilometres, in which 
the share of renewable energies in electricity 
consumption has ranged between 56.1 and 
62 percent in the last three years.  By 2032, 
50Hertz aims to cover all electricity con-
sumption in its grid area with 100 percent re-
newable energy. 
 
50Hertz Offshore GmbH, in turn, is a wholly  
owned subsidiary of 50Hert z Transmission 
GmbH. The business model focuses on the 
planning, erecting, owning and operation of 
electricity grids between offshore wind farms 
in the Baltic Sea and the German onshore 
electricity grid. 
 
Regarding the issuance proceeds, Eurogrid 
undertakes to use the m exclusively for the 
(re)financing of projects that demonstrate 
sustainable benefits in accordance with the 
Green Bond Principles (GBP). 
 
 
Eurogrid GmbH 
 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 5 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
3.  METHODOLOGY  
 
The present report was prepared by qualified imug rating analysts. Our sustainability research 
is carried out exclusively in accordance with recognised and methodically secured procedures. 
We have defined strict quality standards for all research activities and customer proc esses. As 
early as 2002, imug rating adopted a  Code of Conduct , which guarantees the independence, 
traceability and quality of sustainability assessments. To align its research and work processes 
even more closely with recognised standards, imug rating underwent an external audit in June 
2019 and rece ived certification in accordance with the quality management standard ISO 
9001:2015. The initial certifications are reviewed in regular monitoring audits, the last of which 
took place in April 2022. imug rating has been recognised as an Approved Verifier by the Climate 
Bonds Standard Board of the Climate Bond s Initiative (CBI) on 8 July 2022 and can therefore 
be commissioned by Issuers to prepare a pre- and post-issuance report in accordance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard & Certification Scheme. 
 
Following a detailed examination of the information on the financial instrument, the related 
nominated projects & assets and the Issuer’s internal systems and procedures provided by the 
Issuer, imug rating confirms whether a  financial instruments complies with the post-issuance 
requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard (Version 3.0). 
 
To obtain verification, the Issuer must provide transparent information on the following points: 
 
(1) Technical aspects of nominated projects & a ssets that are required to be met  under Part C 
of the Climate Bonds Standard, 
(2) The systems and processes implemented by the Issuer to monitor the flow of funds towards 
the nominated projects & a ssets or the earmarking approach used to identify nominate d pro-
jects & assets, 
(3) Aspects of the structure of the financial instrument, which may require further understand-
ing. For this purpose, imug rating sends two questionnaires to the Issuer. In addition to the 
information, discussions with relevant employees of the Issuer and publicly avail able infor-
mation form the information basis for the present report. These sources were only used if the 
information was comprehensible and documented.  
 
Based on provided information imug rating undertakes a Limited Assurance Verification En-
gagement and pr ovides the Issuer with an independent post -issuance verification report on 
the conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Post -Issuance Requirements. According 
to the agreement with the Climate Bonds Initiative, imug rating does not decide on the certifi-
cation of the bond. All certification decisions under the Climate Bonds Standard & Certification 
Scheme are made by the Climate Bonds Standard Board based on information provided by the 
Issuer, including the report the Issuer has received from imug rating as an accredited verifier. 
  
 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 6 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
Transparency & Disclaimer 
 
imug rating conducted the assurance verification in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage-
ments (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 
 
Disclosure of the relation between imug rating and the Issuer: imug rating, in cooperation with Vigeo Eiris (now Moody’s 
ESG Solutions) has carried out a Second Party Opinion for Eurogrid GmbH in the year 2020 as well as a further Second 
Party Opinion for the Issuer in the year 2022.  These activities are  not related to the present Post-Issuance Verifier’s 
Report. There is no relationship, financial or otherwise, between imug rating and the Issuer. 
 
imug rating has prepared this independent Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report in accordance with imug rating’s method-
ology and in strict compliance with its Code of Conduct to avoid conflicts of interest and to meet requirements of 
objectivity and transparency, independence, integrity and professional conduct.   
 
imug rating GmbH ( “imug rating”) is an independent sustainability rating agency and a wholly  owned subsidiary of 
imug Beratungsgesellschaft für sozial-ökologische Innovationen mbH (“imug Beratungsgesellschaft”). imug rating can-
not exclude that the division imug | csr of the parent company imug Beratungsgesellschaft may have provided con-
sulting services for the framework of the Issuer prior to the preparation of a Second Party Opinion. In order  to avoid 
any conflict of interest, imug rating and imug Beratungsgesellschaft have implemented appropriate policies and effec-
tive information barriers to prevent any exchange between the consulting and the auditing organisations and employ-
ees. Neither imug Beratungsgesellschaft nor any of its employees are informed about the content of the imug rating 
Second Party Opinion prior to its publication or dissemination. 
 
In providing the Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report, imug rating refers to requirements of the Guidance for Verifiers (Version 
2.0) from the Climate Bonds Initiative.  
 
In providing its research and rating services, imug rating acts with due skill, care and diligence and undertakes all rea-
sonable efforts to ensure the accuracy of the information provided. 
 
Based on data provided by the Issuer, imug rating prepares a Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the compliance of the 
Bond(s) with the Climate Bonds Standard (Version 3.0). The information contained herein therefore is provided “as is”, 
without warranty, either expressed or implied, of any kind, including as to the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, 
merchantability or fitness for any particular purpose. 
 
The Issuer is fully responsible for attesting the compliance with its commitments defined in its policies, for their imple-
mentation and their monitoring. The opinion delivered by imug rating focuses neither on the financial performance of 
the Bond, nor on the effective allocation of its proceeds. imug rating is not responsible for the induced consequences 
when third parties use this opinion either to make investments decisions or to make any kind of business transaction.  
 
The information contained herein does not constitute any assessment of the Issuer’s economic performance or cre-
ditworthiness, nor any financial or investment advice, nor any statement about the suitability of an investment for any 
particular investors or any groups of investors. No results and value judgments provided by imug rating constitute an 
investment advice or any other purchase or investment recommendation in any way. To the extent permitted by law, 
imug rating disclaims liability to the client and to any other person or entity for any losses or damage directly or indi-
rectly arising from or related to the use of its research and rating results. 
 
imug rating reserves full rights of, including but not limited to intellectual property rights on the information, method-
ologies and opinions contained or reflected herein. The Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report is provided to the I ssuer by 
imug rating and may be used by the Issuer as agreed between the Issuer and imug rating. Any further publication, in 
its entirety or in extracts, or any other disclosure to or by third parties requires the prior written consent of imug rating. 
 
  
 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 7 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 imug rating is a subsidiary of imug Beratungsgesellschaft für sozial -
ökologische Innovationen mbH in Hanover, which was founded in 1995. We 
have been present as a rating agency on the sustainable financial market for 
over 20 years and are the leading inde pendent player on the German -speak-
ing market for sophisticated ESG information and ratings. Our quality man-
agement is certified with ISO 9001, which is unique in the industry.  
 
 
 imug rating GmbH 
Postkamp 14a 
30159 Hanover 
Phone: +49 511 121 96-50  
E-mail: info@imug-rating.de  
Web: www.imug-rating.de/en  
Analysts 
► Alexander Thole 
► Christina Tyca 
► Daria Ezhkova 
► Gökhan Vatansever  

 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 8 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
 
ANNEX: DETAILED FINDINGS 
 
Eurogrid has declared that the net proceeds of its 2020 Green Bond were used for two marine 
renewable energy transition projects from the CBI category “Marine Renewable Energy ”, 
namely Ostwind 1 1  and Ostwind 2 2, as described in Eurogrid ’s 2020 Green Bond Framework. 
The Issuer has been prompt in providing information to the Verifier. We believe that the proce-
dures performed and the evidence we have obtained are sufficient and appropriate to support 
our findings. Some of the evidence on which our report is b ased are the following: 2020 Green 
Bond Framework, Green Bond Report 2020 and 2021, the completed questionnaires for the 
Post-Issuance Certification Checklist and the Eligibility Criteria for Marine Renewable Energy 
Assets. 
 
imug rating has assessed Eurogrid’s 2020 Green Bond and the nominated projects and assets 
against criteria and requirements detailed within the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
 
The order of the findings in this Annex is as follows: 
 
 Part B: Post-Issuance Requirements 
► Use of Proceeds 
► Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets 
► Management of Proceeds 
► Reporting 
 
 Part C: Eligibility of Projects & Assets 
► Climate Bonds Taxonomy 
► Sector Eligibility Criteria - Marine Renewable Energy 
 
 
PART B: POST-ISSUANCE REQUIREMENTS  
 
5. Use of Proceeds 
 
CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD  
REQUIREMENTS 
FACTUAL FINDINGS 
 
ALIGNMENT  
 
5.1. The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall 
be allocated to the Nominated Projects 
& Assets. 
► All proceeds were allocated to the nominated 
assets in the category “Marine Renewable En-
ergy”. 
 
5.2. All nominated Projects & Assets 
shall meet the documented objectives 
of the Bond as stated under Clause 6.1 
and shall be in conformance with the re-
quirements of Part C of the Climate 
Bonds Standard. 
► Eurogrid has assessed all projects against its 
eligibility criteria. The projects meet the doc-
umented objectives of the Bond and are in 
conformance with the requirements of Part B 
of the Climate Bonds Standards as well as the 
sector-specific criteria of the Climate Bond el-
igibility criteria on Marine Renewable Energy. 
 
5.3. The Issuer shall allocate the Net 
Proceeds to Nominated Projects & As-
sets within 24 months of issuance of the 
► The full amount of the net proceeds were al-
located to nominated assets within 17 
months after the issuance. 
 
                                                      
1 https://www.50hertz.com/en/Grid/Griddevelopement/Concludedprojects/Ostwind1  
2 https://www.50hertz.com/en/Grid/Griddevelopement/Offshoreprojects/Ostwind2  

 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 9 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
Bond, or the Issuer shall disclose in 
post-issuance reporting as per clause 
8.3 the estimated timeline for allocation 
of net proceeds to Nominated Projects 
& Assets. Net proceeds may be reallo-
cated to other Nominated Projects & As-
sets at any time while the Bond remains 
outstanding. 
5.4. Nominated Projects & Assets shall 
not be nominated to other Certified Cli-
mate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, 
Certified Climate Debt Instruments, 
green bonds, green loans or other la-
belled instruments (such as social 
bonds or SDG bonds) unless it is 
demonstrated by the Issuer that: 
► Eurogrid reports and confirms that the nomi-
nated assets have not been nominated to 
other Climate Bonds. 
 
 
5.4.1. distinct portions of the Nomi-
nated Projects & Assets are being 
funded by different Certified Climate 
Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Cer-
tified Climate Debt Instruments, 
green bonds, green loans or other 
labelled instruments or; 
5.4.2. the existing Certified Climate 
Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Cer-
tified Climate Debt Instrument is be-
ing refinanced via another Certified 
Climate Bond, Certified Climate 
Loan or Certified Climate Debt In-
strument. 
5.5. Where some of the Net Proceeds of 
the Bond are used for refinancing, the 
Issuer shall track the share of the Net 
Proceeds used for financing and refi-
nancing and identify which Nominated 
Projects & Assets may be refinanced. 
This may include the expected look-
back period for refinanced Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
► As stated in the audited Green Reporting 
2021, the share of refinancing in the total net 
proceeds is 55.8 percent. The share of refi-
nancing in the proceeds for “Ostwind 1” is 
97.0 percent and for “Ostwind 2” 43.0 per-
cent. Eurogrid refinanced investments in 
both projects made on 1 July 2018 and there-
after. 
 
5.6. The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall 
be tracked by the Issuer following a for-
mal internal process, which is docu-
mented in accordance with Clause 3.1. 
► The net proceeds of the Bond are managed 
on a portfolio basis. There is an internal pro-
cess to monitor and track net income 
through the internal accounting system. An 
external independent third party, BDO AG, 
has verified the allocation. 
 
5.7. The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall 
be no greater than the Issuer’s total in-
vestment exposure or debt obligation to 
the Nominated Projects & Assets, or the 
relevant proportion of the total Market 
Value of the Nominated Projects & As-
sets, which are owned or financed by 
the Issuer. 
► Eurogrid reports and confirms that the net 
proceeds of the Bond are no greater than the 
total investments in the nominated assets. 
The net proceeds were fully allocated.  
 

 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 10 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
5.8. Additional Nominated Project & As-
sets may be added to, or used to substi-
tute or replenish, the portfolio of Nomi-
nated Project & Assets as long as the ad-
ditional Nominated Project & Assets are 
eligible under Part C of the Climate 
Bonds Standard and are consistent with 
the Bond’s objective as set out in 
Clauses 6.1 and 6.1.1. 
► There is no additional, substituted or replen-
ished project apart from the two nominated 
projects. 
 
5.8.1. Where additional Nominated 
Projects & Assets are covered by 
Sector Eligibility Criteria, which were 
not included in the scope of either 
the Pre-Issuance Verification or the 
Post-Issuance Verification engage-
ments, the Issuer shall engage a Ver-
ifier to provide a Verifier’s Report 
covering at least the conformance 
of the additional Nominated Pro-
jects & Assets with the relevant Sec-
tor Eligibility Criteria under Part C of 
the Climate Bonds Standard. 
 
 
6. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects & Assets  
 
CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD  
REQUIREMENTS 
FACTUAL FINDINGS 
 
ALIGNMENT  
 
6.1. The Issuer shall document and 
maintain a decision-making process, 
which it uses to determine the continu-
ing eligibility of the Nominated Projects 
& Assets. This includes, without limita-
tion: 
► Eurogrid has confirmed the decision-making 
process by which it determined the contin-
ued eligibility of the nominated assets. All the 
requirements mentioned are included. The 
process is documented in the 2020 Green 
Bond Framework. 
 
6.1.1. A statement on the climate-re-
lated objectives of the Bond; 
► In its Framework, Eurogrid describes the 
main environmental objectives for all pro-
jects. 
 
6.1.2. How the climate-related ob-
jectives of the Bond are positioned 
within the context of the Issuer’s 
overarching objectives, strategy, 
policy and/or processes relating to 
environmental sustainability; 
► In its Framework, Eurogrid describes how the 
climate-related objectives of the Bond are 
positioned within the context of the Issuer’s 
overarching objectives, strategy, policy 
and/or processes relating to environmental 
sustainability. 
 
6.1.3. The Issuer’s rationale for issu-
ing the Bond; 
► In its Framework, Eurogrid describes its ra-
tionale for issuing the Bond.  
6.1.4. A process to determine 
whether the Nominated Projects & 
Assets meet the eligibility require-
ments specified in Part C of the Cli-
mate Bonds Standard; 
► In its Framework, Eurogrid describes the pro-
cess to determine whether the nominated as-
sets meet the eligibility requirements. 
 
6.1.5. Other information provided by 
the Issuer in order to satisfy Clause 
2.2 and 2.3 of the Standard. 

 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 11 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
 
 
7. Management of Proceeds 
 
CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD  
REQUIREMENTS 
FACTUAL FINDINGS 
 
ALIGNMENT  
 
7.1. The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall 
be credited to a sub-account, moved to 
a sub-portfolio or otherwise identified 
by the Issuer in an appropriate manner, 
and documented. 
► The net proceeds of the Bond were credited 
to Eurogrid’s general treasury and managed 
on a portfolio basis within four weeks after 
the issuance. Thereafter, they were trans-
ferred in full via 50Hertz Transmission to a 
separate green bond sub-account of 50Hertz 
Offshore. During the allocation process, the 
corresponding amounts from this sub-ac-
count were transferred to the main account 
of 50Hertz Offshore. The Issuer identifies and 
documents the net proceeds in an appropri-
ate manner. 
 
7.2. The Issuer of the Bond shall main-
tain the earmarking process to manage 
and account for allocation of Net Pro-
ceeds to the Nominated Projects & As-
sets as described in Clause 3.1.3. 
► The net proceeds of the Bond are fully allo-
cated through Eurogrid’s ad hoc subsidiaries. 
 
7.3. While the Bond remains outstand-
ing, the balance of the tracked Net Pro-
ceeds shall be reduced by amounts allo-
cated to Nominated Projects & Assets. 
Pending such allocations to Nominated 
Projects & Assets, the balance of unallo-
cated Net Proceeds shall be: 
► The full amount of the net proceeds were al-
located to nominated assets within 17 
months after the issuance. Funds not yet allo-
cated were temporarily held in cash or cash 
equivalents in the Eurogrid cash pool and not 
invested in greenhouse gas intensive pro-
jects. 
 
 
7.3.1. Held in temporary investment 
instruments that are cash, or cash 
equivalent instruments, within a 
Treasury function; or 
7.3.2. Held in temporary investment 
instruments that do not include 
greenhouse gas intensive projects 
which are inconsistent with the de-
livery of a low-carbon and climate-
resilient economy; or 
7.3.3. Applied to temporarily reduce 
indebtedness of a revolving nature 
before being redrawn for invest-
ments or disbursements to Nomi-
nated Projects & Assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report on the Green Bond issued by Eurogrid GmbH – 06.10.2022 12 
Post-Issuance Verifier’s Report 
 
8. Reporting 
 
CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD  
REQUIREMENTS 
FACTUAL FINDINGS 
 
ALIGNMENT  
 
8.1. The Issuer shall prepare an Update 
Report at least annually while the Bond 
remains outstanding. 
► Eurogrid has published two annual Green 
Bond Reports for the years 2020 and 2021.  
8.1.2. The Update Report shall be 
made available to holders of the 
Bond and to the Climate Bonds 
Standard Board. 
► The reports are publicity available on the Is-
suer’s website: https://www.eu-
rogrid.com/en-us/Investor-Relations/Green-
Financing 
 
8.1.3. The Issuer should provide an 
Update Report to holders of the 
Bond on a timely basis in case of 
material developments. 
► No material developments were reported. 
 
 
 
PART C: ELIGIBILITY OF PROJECTS & ASSETS 
 
9. Climate Bonds Taxonomy 
 
CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD  
REQUIREMENTS 
FACTUAL FINDINGS 
 
ALIGNMENT  
 
Alignment of the Climate Bond 
category 
► Nominated Projects, as identified by the Is-
suer, fall into one of the investment areas 
listed as included in the Climate Bonds Tax-
onomy. 
 
 
 
10. Sector Eligibility Criteria 
 
CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD  
REQUIREMENTS 
FACTUAL FINDINGS 
 
ALIGNMENT  
 
Sector-specific eligibility criteria –  
Marine Renewable Energy 
► The full amount of the net proceeds is distrib-
uted to eligible assets related in the afore-
mentioned category that meet the eligibility 
requirements of the Climate Bonds Stand-
ards. These requirements consist of Marine 
Renewable Energy specific Disclosure Com-
ponent, Mitigation Component and Adapta-
tion & Resilience Requirements, all of which 
were analysed upon receipt of the completed 
questionnaire from the Issuer.