© Sustainalytics 2024 
 
 
Second-Party Opinion 
Inter-American Development Bank 
Sustainable Debt Framework 
 
Evaluation Summary 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Inter-American Development Bank 
Sustainable Debt Framework is credible, impactful and aligned with the Sustainability 
Bond Guidelines 2021, Green Bond Principles 2021 and Social Bond Principles 2023. 
This assessment is based on the following: 
 USE OF PROCEEDS The eligible categories1 for the use of proceeds 
are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles , and 
Social Bond Principles. Sustainalytics considers that investments in 
the eligible categorie s will lead to positive environmental or social 
impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, 
specifically SDGs 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16 and 17.  
  IDB’s treasury division, in 
collaboration with the Bank’s office of strategic planning and 
development effectiveness, selects projects in line with the 
Framework’s eligibility criteria. As part of the project evaluation and 
selection process, the Bank’s tr easury division consults its internal 
lending specialists. All activities financed under the Framework will 
be screened for potential environmental and social risks by IDB’s 
Environmental and Social Risk Management Unit. Sustainalytics 
considers the project selection process in line with market practice. 
 MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS IDB will be managing proceeds on a 
portfolio basis. An amount equal to the net proceeds will be recorded 
in a separate sub -account and allocated to credible investments . 
IDB’s Treasury department  will be responsible for management of 
proceeds. IDB will allocate proceeds fully within 36 months of each 
issuance. In the case that the selected projects no longer comply with 
the eligibility criteria in the Framework, IDB will reallocate proceeds 
to other eligible projects. Pending full allocation, temporary proceeds 
will be held in cash and cash equivalents, in accordance with IDB’s 
conservative liquidity investment guidelines. 
 REPORTING IDB will make an annual allocation and impact report 
available on IDB Investor website until full allocation of proceeds . 
Allocation reporting will include the amount of net proceeds allocated 
per project or category. Sustainalytics considers the allocation and 
impact reporting commitments as aligned with market practice. 
 
 
Evaluation Date December 9, 2024 
Issuer Location Washington, DC 
United States  
 
Report Sections 
 
 
Introduction ............................................. 2 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion ........................... 3 
 
 
For inquiries, contact the Sustainable 
Corporate Solutions project team: 
Manali Vaidya (Toronto) 
Project Manager 
manali.vaidya@morningstar.com 
(+1) 416 861 0403 
Gizem Celik Bayar (Toronto) 
Project Support 
Carlos Vinueza (Toronto) 
Project Support 
Lindsay Brent (Toronto) 
Client Relations 
susfinance.americas@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 9623 
 
  
 
1 The use of proceeds categories are: i) Energy Efficiency; ii) Renewable Energy; iii) Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources 
and Land Use; iv) Climate Adaptation and Mitigation; v) Clean Transportation; vi) Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management; vii) Pollution Prevention 
and Control; viii) Access to Essential Services; ix) Access to Basic Infrastructure; x) Socioeconomic Advancement and Empowerment; xi) Cultural Heritage 
Preservation; xii) Employment Generation – employment generation and programmes designed to prevent and alleviate unemployment stemming from 
socioeconomic crises, climate transition projects and other considerations for a just transition ; xiii) Food Security and Sustainable Food Systems; xiv) 
Security, Justice and Conflict Resolution; and xv) State Modernization.  

Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
2 
Introduction 
The Inter-American Development Bank (“IDB” or the “ Bank”), a member of the Inter-American Development 
Bank Group, is a multilateral development bank headquartered in Washington, DC, United States. T he Bank 
aims to contribute to accelerating economic and social development in its 26 borrowing countries in Latin 
America and the Caribbean. In addition to the 26 borrowing members in Latin America and the Caribbean, IDB 
has 22 non-borrowing members in Asia, Europe and North America.2  
IDB has developed the Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework dated December 2024 
(the “Framework”) under which it intends to issue green, social and sustainability bonds, and use the proceeds 
to finance and refinance, in whole or in part, existing and future public sector projects expected to lead to 
positive environmental and social advancements in Latin America and the Caribbean.3  
The Framework defines eligibility criteria under the following environmental categories: 
1. Energy Efficiency 
2. Renewable Energy  
3. Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use 
4. Climate Adaptation and Mitigation 
5. Clean Transportation 
6. Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management 
7. Pollution Prevention and Control 
The Framework defines eligibility criteria under the following social categories: 
8. Access to Essential Services 
9. Access to Basic Infrastructure 
10. Socioeconomic Advancement and Empowerment 
11. Cultural Heritage Preservation 
12. Employment Generation – employment generation and program mes designed to prevent and 
alleviate unemployment stemming from socioeconomic crises, climate transition projects and other 
considerations for a just transition 
13. Food Security and Sustainable Food Systems 
14. Security, Justice and Conflict Resolution 
15. State Modernization  
 
IDB engaged Sustainalytics to review the Framework and provide a Second-Party Opinion on the Framework’s 
environmental and social credentials and its alignment with the Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2021 (SBG), 
Green Bond Principles 2021 (GBP) and Social Bond Principles 2023 (SBP)4. The Framework will be published 
in a separate document.5  
Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics’ Second-Party Opinion 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent6 opinion on the alignment of the 
reviewed Framework with current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are 
credible and impactful. 
As part of the Second-Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: 
• The Framework’s alignment with th e Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2021, Green Bond Principles 
2021, and Social Bond Principles 2023, as administered by ICMA; 
 
2 IDB, “Annual Report 2023 Financial Statements”, at: https://publications.iadb.org/en/inter-american-development-bank-annual-report-2023-financial-
statements 
3 IDB may extend funding to first -tier public intermediary financial institutions, which in turn provide funding to second -tier public financial institutions 
(such as microfinance institutions) which on-lend to MSMEs. 
4 The Sustainability Bond Guidelines, Green Bond Principles and Social Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association 
and are available at: https://www.icmagroup.org/sustainable-finance/the-principles-guidelines-and-handbooks/ 
5 The Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework will be available on IDB’s website at: https://www.iadb.org/en/how-we-can-work-
together/investors  
6 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst 
independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore p ut in place a robust conflict management 
framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial and research (and 
engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial 
outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
3 
• The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds; and 
• The alignment of the issuer ’s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk 
management in relation to the use of proceeds. 
For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.17, which is 
informed by market practice and Sustainalytics’ expertise as an ESG research provider. 
As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of IDB’s management 
team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as 
well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. IDB representatives have 
confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of IDB to ensure that the information provided is 
complete, accurate and up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and 
(3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also 
reviewed relevant public documents and non-public information. 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that 
Framework. Any update of the present Second -Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed 
engagement conditions between Sustainalytics and IDB. 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market 
standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market 
standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 
projects but does not measure the actual impacts . The measurement and reporting of the impact achieved 
through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. 
In addition, the Second-Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee 
the realized allocation of proceeds towards eligible activities. 
No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second -Party Opinion shall be considered as 
being a statement, representation, warrant or argument, either in favour or against the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that IDB has made 
available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second-Party Opinion.  
Sustainalytics’ Opinion 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Inter-American Development Bank 
Sustainable Debt Framework 
Sustainalytics considers the Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework to be credible, 
impactful and align ed with the  SBG and the  four core components of the  GBP and SBP. Sustainalytics 
highlights the following elements of the Framework: 
• Use of Proceeds:  
- The eligible categories  are aligned with those recognized by the GBP and SBP. The eligible 
categories are: Energy Efficiency; Renewable Energy; Environmentally Sustainable Management 
of Living Natural Resources and Land Use; Climate Adaptation and Mitigation; Clean 
Transportation; Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management; Pollution Prevention and 
Control; Access to Essential Services; Access to Basic Infrastructure; Socioeconomic 
Advancement and Empowerment; Cultural Heritage Preservation; Employment Generation – 
employment generation and program mes designed to prevent and alleviate unemployment 
stemming from socioeconomic crises, climate transition projects and other considerations for 
a just transition; Food Security and Sustainable Food Systems; Security, Justice and Conflict 
Resolution; and State Modernization. 
- IDB has defined a 36-month look-back period for refinancing, which Sustainalytics considers to 
be in line with market practice. 
- Under the Energy Efficiency category,  IDB may finance or refinance the following projects 
intended to promote the efficient use of energy resources: i) LED lighting, HVAC upgrades, smart 
building retrofits, sensors and controls ; ii) smart meters7 and remote monitoring, control and 
 
7 IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that smart meters exclude smart gas meters 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
4 
automation equipment for electrical transmission grids ; iii) investments in management and 
operation of electrical transmission grids with the purpose of improving efficiency and 
decreasing grid technical losses;8 and iv) street lighting improvements and upgrades.  
▪ IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that : i) street lighting upgrades will be limited to 
conversion of street lighting to LED; ii) energy efficiency equipment and technologies 
will not be designed nor intended for processes that are inherently carbon intensive; iii) 
equipment will not run on  fossil fuels  and will not be applied to transmission lines 
connected or dedicated to power produced from fossil fuel.  
▪ Sustainalytics considers investments under this category to be aligned with market 
practice.  
- Under the Renewable Energy category, IDB may finance or refinance renewable energy 
generation and green transmission infrastructure projects as per the following eligibility criteria: 
▪ Renewable energy generation projects include:  
• Wind generation, solar PV and concentrated solar projects where at least 85% 
of the electricity generation is derived from solar energy.  This is aligned with 
market practice. 
• Hydropower projects, including: i) small run-of-river hydropower projects with 
an installed capacity of 25 MW with no or limited impoundment ; and ii) 
refurbishment and repower  of existing large hydropower  plants. For all 
hydropower projects , an environmental and social risk and impact 
assessment will be undertaken by a credible body and there will be no 
controversies surrounding the projects. IDB may finance the refurbishment or 
repowering of existing large hydropower facilities, to extend the facilities’ 
useful life or to enhance their energy storage and production capacity with 
improved efficiency. Sustainalytics notes that the emissions intensities from 
hydropower project s can vary widely with the median average of 23 
gCO2/kWh. Furthermore, hydropower plants can have lifetimes beyond 100 
years, effectively lock ing in power generation for decades. Hence, 
Sustainalytics considers the life cycle em issions intensity threshold to be a 
crucial environmental consideration for hydropower facilities. Sustainalytics 
encourages IDB to favour projects with low life cycle emissions intensity and 
to report, where possible, on the intensity of such refurbished and repowered 
hydropower projects. 
▪ Green transmission infrastructure projects include: 
• Direct connections to and associated grid upgrades required for the 
interconnection of renewable electricity generation sources. 
• Regional interconnections to support the dispatch of renewable energy from 
regions with surplus renewable power to load centres, grids and networks. 
• Grids and networks in line with the following criteria: i) the average life cycle 
emission factor of the grid is below 100  gCO2e/kWh over a rolling five-year 
period; or ii) more than 67% of the newly connected generation capacity on 
the grid is below 100 gCO2e/kWh, measured on a life cycle basis, over a rolling 
five-year period. 
• Sustainalytics views the above expenditures related to green transmission 
infrastructure projects to be aligned with market practice. 
- Under the Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use 
category, IDB may finance or refinance projects as per the following criteria: 
▪ Financing to support sustainable agriculture and marine production , including  the 
following: 
• Surveillance and control to prevent introduction and mitigate impact of pests 
and diseases. IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that use of herbicides or 
insecticides to control or eradicate invasive pests  or plants will be excluded. 
 
8 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that investments in management and operation of electrical transmission grids relate to smart grid components 
and will include: i) technology for smart grids, such as components for wide area monitoring systems (WAMS), measurement equipment, supervisory  
control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, smart meters to measure electricity consumption, monitoring and control automat ion devices, and big 
data and computing platforms; ii) metering systems and intelligent electricity systems that manage the intermittency of renewable energy; and iii) retrofit 
of transmission and distribution networks to reduce energy use and technical losses, avoid electricity cuts, facilitate integration of renewable energy into 
the grid and improve energy efficiency. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
5 
Moreover, hunting, trapping, poisoning and culling of vertebrate animals 
considered as pests will be excluded.  Sustainalytics considers this to be in 
line with market practice. 
▪ Efficient irrigation techniques that promote efficient water allocation, water recycling 
and rainwater harvesting.  IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that : i) recy cled water 
will exclude  treated wastewater from fossil fuel operations and ii) systems and 
facilities dedicated to industrial scale livestock are excluded. Sustainalytics considers 
this to be in line with market practice. 
▪ Production of certified crops and commodities in line with the following certifications: 
Rainforest Alliance, 9 Bonsucro,10 Round Table for Responsible Soy ( RTRS),11 
ProTerra,12 4C,13 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC),14 Program for the Endorsement of 
Forest Certification (PEFC),15 CERFLOR;16 and aquaculture investments certified by the 
Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC),17 Global G.A.P. Aquaculture, Best Aquaculture 
Practices (2 stars or above)18 and Marine Stewardship Council (MSC),19 Best Seafood 
Practices certification by Global Seafood Alliance, 20 UTZ21 and any nationally 
designated organic standard. Sustainalytics notes that it is market expectation to 
specify all eligible schemes and certifications and encourages IDB to report on any 
specific schemes and certifications achieved by the projects financed under the 
Framework. 
▪ Regenerative agriculture that contributes to rebuilding soil organic matter and restoring 
degraded soil biodiversity.  
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that it will finance agroforestry units 
and smallholder farms, which  will be accompanied by a sustainable forest 
management plan, enabling family producers to comply with requirements 
that would have otherwise been met through Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC) or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) 
certification.22 This is in line with market practice. 
▪ Financing to support marine and coastal economy: Eligible projects will include green 
ports infrastructure projects related to low-carbon marine bunkerin g facilities and 
shore-to-ship power.  
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that vessels will not be financed under 
this category and low-carbon fuel will be limited to green methanol, hydrogen, 
biofuel or ammonia.  
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that it may finance water treatment 
equipment and facilities for all blackwater and greywater generated from 
ports, shipping and cruising vessels , and solid waste receiver facilities at 
ports and terminals for the collection of garbage . IDB has further confirmed 
to Sustain alytics that : i) infrastructure in ports dedicated to fossil fuel 
shipping and exports as well as waste collection vehicles will not be financed 
under the Framework; ii) wastewater treatment equipment will not be installed 
on vessels; iii) the waste receiver facilities will segregate waste at source; iv) 
waste-to-energy facilities financed under the Framework wil l segregate 
recyclables; and v) the activity may include financing waste recycling 
facilities.  
 
9 Rainforest Alliance: https://www.rainforest-alliance.org/about/ 
10 Bonsucro: https://bonsucro.com/production-standard/ 
11 RTRS: https://responsiblesoy.org/?lang=en 
12 ProTerra: https://www.proterrafoundation.org/ 
13 4C: https://www.commonshare.com/standards/4c 
14 FSC: https://ca.fsc.org/en-ca 
15 PEFC: https://www.pefc.org/standards-implementation 
16 CERFLOR: http://www.inmetro.gov.br/qualidade/cerflor.asp 
17 ASC: https://asc-aqua.org/business/chain-of-custody-standard/ 
18 Best Aquacultural Practices: https://www.bapcertification.org/ 
19 MSC: https://www.msc.org/standards-and-certification/fisheries-standard 
20 Best Seafood Practices: https://bspcertification.org/ 
21 UTZ: https://www.rainforest-alliance.org/utz/ 
22 Sustainalytics highlights that forestry-related assets or projects certified by either FSC or PEFC integrate appropriate management plans related to soil 
health, water and fire management, riparian area protection, biodiversity management, species selection, as well as chemicals use. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
6 
o Sustainalytics recognizes that energy from waste may take out of 
circulation potentially recyclable materials and undermine key 
objectives of a zero -waste circular economy , namely waste 
prevention and recycling. Additionally, the composition of residual 
waste, particularly fossil carbon content, is a crucial consideration  
for such projects to have low emissions intensities . However, 
Sustainalytics also notes that energy from waste offer s a better 
residual waste management option than landfills in many cases, due 
to constraints on recycling in many parts of the world. Sustainalytics 
recommends IDB to promote the removal of increasing amounts of 
recyclables, especially plastics and metals, and the monitoring of the 
thermal efficiency of the financed facilities. 
o For recycling facilities  financed under this category, IDB has 
confirmed to Sustainalytics that: i) recycling e-waste from electrical 
and electronic equipment will be accompanied by robust waste 
management processes to mitigate associated risks;  and ii) plastic 
recycling activities will be financed only when: a) the activity includes 
production with at least 90% recycled, renewable or bio -based input 
where biogenic input will be sustainably sourced; b) the activity may 
include mechanical and chemical  recycling; and c) single -use 
plastics will be excluded. Further,  IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that , in addition to the  abovementioned criteria,  
chemical recycling of plastics will also align with the following 
criteria: i) the recycled product will have life cycle emissions lower 
than the life cycle emissions from the production of virgin plastic; ii) 
the process will be accompanied by robust waste management 
procedures to mitigate risks associated with the resulting hazardous 
wastes; and iii) plastic-to-fuel conversion will be excluded.  
• Sustainalytics considers these expenditures to be aligned with market 
practice. 
▪ Financing to support land and marine ecosystems conservation  will include the 
following: 
• Conservation, development and restoration of key biodiversity areas through 
the establishment of recognized protected areas and green spaces, such as 
parks, as well as wetlands and marine areas, such as seagrass beds, coral 
and mangroves. 
• Traceability technologies used to prevent deforestation and monitor 
biodiversity benefits , such as satellites and satellite imagery, and artificial 
intelligence for anomalies’ detection.  
• Afforestation or reforestation projects, preservation or restoration of natural 
landscapes certified by FSC, PEFC or Rainforest Alliance.  
• Rewilding through creating or restoring habitats or wildlife , including 
reforestation and biodiversity corridors. 
• Research initiatives targeting conservation and restoration of marine and 
coastal ecosystems.  
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that : i) all reforestation and 
conservation initiatives financed under this category will use tree species that 
are well  adapted to the site conditions ; and ii) the use of agrochemicals 
(herbicides or insecticides) as well as hunting, trapping, poisoning and culling 
of vertebrate animals considered as pests  will not be financed to control or 
eradicate invasive plants or insects.  
• Sustainalytics views expenditures related to land and marine ecosystems 
conservation to be aligned with market practice.  
- Under the Climate Adaptation and Mitigation category, IDB may finance or refinance  activities 
that reduce the vulnerability of human or natural systems against the adverse impacts of climate 
change and climate-related risks, by means of building resilience or strengthening adaptation to 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
7 
deal with the effect s of climate-aggravated floods, wildfires, landslides, droughts, earthquakes 
and tsunamis, including:  
▪ Grid infrastructure hardening to address climate adaptation risks , including improved 
resiliency in electrical systems. IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that financing will 
exclude transmission lines directly connected to fossil fuel power.  
▪ Programmes to support vulnerability assessments and recovery planning for areas 
damaged or at risk of damage by natural disasters.  
▪ Measures to c onserve and restor e ecosystems, such as drought -resistant seeds, 23 
nutrient cycling, ecotone levees, floodplain restoration, storm water drainage, water 
storage with watershed restoration or conservation. 
▪ Projects to strengthen national monitoring, forecasting and alert capacities for natural 
disasters, including early warning systems for natural disasters and atmospheric 
forecasting to predict timelines and paths of hurricanes. 
▪ Shoreline stabilization and coastal flooding control measures, including the 
development of offshore breakwater, groynes  and headlands to coastal regions  to 
prevent flooding.  
▪ Conservation or restoration of mangroves, wetlands to reduce flooding, soil and water 
salination; and coral reefs to reduce storms surges and flooding.24  
▪ Fire management program mes that finance management and interventions that 
directly reduce fire threats . IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that financing will be 
limited to wildfire or bushfire management programmes in native areas.  
▪ IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that all  climate change adaptation projects 
financed under this category will be subject to completing a climate risk assessment 
to identify the potential risks involved and establishing an adaptation plan to respond 
to the conclusions of the risk assessment of areas prone to climate risks.  
▪ Sustainalytics considers investments under this category to be aligned with market 
practice.  
- Under the Clean Transportation category, IDB may finance or refinance low-carbon transport and 
electric mobility infrastructure, including: 
▪ Electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles and public low-carbon transport, with direct emissions 
intensity below 50 gCO2e/pkm.  
▪ IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that it will  use the World Harmonized Light -
duty Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) to identify credible assets on a best-effort basis. 
Different test procedures can achieve varying results in actual vehicles’ CO2 emissions, 
whether they intend to replicate real-driving conditions, such as WLTP, or are based on 
theoretical driving profile, such as NEDC. 25 Hence, Sustainalytics further encourages  
IDB to report on the test procedure used to determine the emissions intensity of 
financed vehicles, where feasible.  
▪ Freight rail with direct emissions intensity below 25 gCO2e/tkm. IDB has confirmed to 
Sustainalytics that: i) the primary purpose of the freight rail is not transporting fossil 
fuel freight; and ii) rail lines and operations where fossil fuels account for more than 
50% of the freight in mass are excluded.  
▪ Transportation infrastructure that supports the transportation vehicles meeting the 
Framework criteria, such as charging stations, new, extended and renovated railroads, 
walkways and bike paths . IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that parking facilities 
will not be financed under the Framework.  
▪ Sustainalytics views these expenditures to be aligned with market practice.  
 
23 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that genetically modified seeds will be excluded from financing under the Framework. 
24 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that: i) there is a sustainable management plan in place for the conservation and restoration activity, which 
may be certified by FSC  or PEFC ii) all restoration and conservation initiatives financed under this category will use tree  or plant species that are well 
adapted to the site conditions; and iii) the use of agrochemicals (herbicides or insecticides) as well as hunting, trapping, poisoning and culling of vertebrate 
animals considered as pests will not be financed to control or eradicate invasive plants or insects. 
25 The WLTP (World Harmonized Light-duty Vehicle Test Procedure) test cycle uses real-driving data to replicate actual driving conditions, while the 
NEDC (New European Driving Cycle) test determines values based on a theoretical driving profile, which can lead to material differences in terms of 
tailpipe emissions.  
European Commission, “From NEDC to WLTP: effect on the type-approval CO2 emissions of light-duty vehicles”, (2017), at: 
https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC107662  
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
8 
- Under the Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management category, IDB may finance or 
refinance expenditures related to water use efficiency and disposal of wastewater, including:  
▪ Investments to ensure sustainable use of water, including water supply optimization in 
agricultural production, 26 manufacturing and construction. IDB has confirmed to  
Sustainalytics that : i) water efficiency systems will not be applied to fossil fuel and 
hard-to-abate sectors; ii) equipment and methods will not be dependent on fossil fuels; 
and iii) systems and measures to provide water for fossil fuel operations, fracking and 
mining operations will not be financed under the Framework.   
▪ Infrastructure supporting operational efficiency of sewerage systems  as well as 
infrastructure dedicated to sanitation services , including sanitary and storm water 
sewerage and wastewater treatment services.  
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that : i) treatment of wastewater from 
fossil fuel operations and industrial-scale livestock , as well as desalination 
facilities will not be financed under this category; and ii) sewerage systems 
will be limited to systems that feed into the treatment services meeting the 
criteria in the Framework.   
▪ Sustainalytics considers investments under this category to be aligned with market 
practice.  
- Under the Pollution Prevention and Control category, IDB may finance or refinance expenditures 
related to waste prevention, reduction and recycling, including:  
▪ Infrastructure dedicated to solid waste reuse, recycling or recovery.  
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that energy -from-waste projects will not 
be financed under this category.  
• For recycling facilities  financed under this category , IDB has confirmed to 
Sustainalytics that : i) recycling e-waste from electrical and electronic 
equipment will be accompanied by robust waste management processes to 
mitigate associated risks ; and ii) plastic recycling activities will be financed 
only when: a) the  activity include s production with at least 90% recycled, 
renewable or bio -based input where biogenic input will be sustainably 
sourced; b) the activity may include mechanical and chemical recycling; and 
c) single-use plastics will be excluded. Furthermore, IDB has communicated 
to Sustainalytics that , in addition to the abovementioned criteria, chemical 
recycling of plastics will be financed in line with the following criteria : i) the 
recycled product will  have life cycle emissions lower than the life cycle 
emissions from th e production of virgin plastic; ii) the process is  
accompanied by robust waste management procedures to mitigate 
associated risks of the resulting hazardous wastes ; and iii) plastic -to-fuel 
conversion will be excluded. 
▪ Flood mitigation measures  and urban drainage systems  that prevent plastic, solid 
waste or pollutants runoff into freshwater and marine habitats. IDB has communicated 
to Sustainalytics that a vulnerability assessment and an adaptation plan will be utilized 
to support the need of these investments.  
▪ Air quality monitoring systems that will monitor GHG emissions and other air pollutants 
such as NOx, SOx and PM pollution . IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that these 
systems will not be applied to fossil fuel industries and technologies that inherently 
rely on fossil fuels.  
▪ Sustainalytics considers investments under this category to be aligned with market 
practice.  
- The Framework defines three groups for the social use of proceeds categories:  
▪ Vulnerable Populations include: 
• People facing economic challenges or vulnerability due to disability, health, 
gender identity, sexual orientation, religion, age, economic disadvantage or 
social condition such as victims of violence. 
• Vulnerable groups of people who may be more adversely affected by project 
impacts than others . These groups will include p eople belonging to an 
 
26 Agricultural production excludes industrial-scale livestock production. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
9 
Indigenous population or belonging to historically marginalized groups based 
on race, colour or ethnicity, including such people living in urban settings.  
• Women-headed households. 
▪ Underserved Populations include: 
• Marginalized populations or populations with limited access to essential 
services and basic infrastructure.  
• Poor and low-income population: IDB has defined as poor those living below 
the national poverty line , and low-income population as people living below 
the national median income but above the national poverty line. 
• People living in rural areas . These may also include l andless individuals and 
single-headed households  living in rural areas . IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that the Bank will be relying on governments’ definitions of rural 
areas. 
• Refugees and displaced persons who may lack protection under national or 
international law. 
• Natural resource -dependent communities: IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that natural resource-dependent communities are populations 
that rely on local ecosystems for their livelihoods, including small-scale 
activities such as  agriculture, fishing, foraging and forestry. Their direct 
dependence on natural resources makes these communities vulnerable to 
environmental impacts and to economic shocks, both of which can threaten 
their livelihoods. 
• Populations living in areas highly exposed to crime and violence: IDB has 
communicated to Sustainalytics that it refers to government or local 
authorities’ published databases to identify such areas. 
▪ SMEs and MSMEs that adhere to the following criteria: 
• MSMEs are defined based on the government definition in the host country27 
(including one-person businesses identified as MSMEs) or the definition used 
by the financial intermediaries supported, to categorize their loan portfolio 
according to the size of sub-borrowers.28 
• Women or diversity-owned enterprises, defined as enterprises owned at least 
51% by women or another minority. 
• Smallholder farmers and agricultural MSMEs: IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that the Bank will be following the FAO’s definition of 
smallholder farmers.29 IDB has further communicated to Sustainalytics that 
agricultural MSMEs will adhere to the definition of MSMEs as prescribed by 
the governments.  
- Under the Access to Essential Services category IDB may finance or refinance education and 
healthcare projects that adhere to the following eligibility criteria: 
▪ Education related expenditures will include: i) programmes aimed at improving quality 
of education and access to nurseries, schools, basic, secondary and higher education; 
ii) improving access to education for rural areas, iii) skills development program mes 
for teachers and public service employees ; and iv) construction, expansion and 
improvement of public schools, universities and other public education services. 
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that the expenditures related to 
education projects will be limited to public facilities and services and will be 
accessible to all regardless of ability to pay. IDB has also communicated to 
Sustainalytics that education projects financed under the Framework will 
target Vulnerable Populations and Underserved Populations. 
 
27 IDB defines host country as the country in which the project will be operated. 
28 IDB has communicated with Sustainalytics that most Latin Americas and Caribbean countries have a government -recognized definition for MSMEs 
which the Bank will follow for projects financed under the Framework. However, in rare cases when a host country does not have a government-recognized 
definition for MSMEs, IDB  will collaborate with relevant intermediaries (such as the government and other multilateral development bank s) to conduct 
market studies and analyses. Based on such market studies, IDB, along with the host country government and the intermediary, will together decide the 
definition for MSMEs to be followed for projects financed under the Framework. 
29 FAO, “Smallholders and Family Farmers”, (2013), at: https://www.fao.org/family-farming/detail/en/c/273864/ 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
10 
• Sustainalytics views the expenditures related to education projects to be 
socially impactful.  
▪ Healthcare related expenditures will include: i) programmes supporting public medical 
centres, laboratories, hospitals, clinics, health equipment and supplies for primary and 
specialized healthcare; ii) emergency medical equipment and personal protection 
elements (PPE) for pandemics ; and iii) programmes that help reduce maternal and 
infant mortality, and non-communicable diseases. 
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that expenditures related to 
healthcare projects will be limited to public facilities and services to support 
borrowing countries progress towards universal healthcare coverage. IDB has 
further communicated to Sustainalytics that such investments will be 
targeted at improving access to healthcare facilities and services to the 
Underserved Populations and will be accessible to all regardless of ability to 
pay. IDB has further communicated to Sustainalytics that healthcare services 
will be available to the target populations either free of cost or at a subsidized 
rate.30 
• Sustainalytics acknowledges that healthcare systems in  many countries in  
Latin America and the Caribbean  have structural challenges, such as limited 
institutional capacity , insufficient funding, segmentation of patients 
according to ability to pay, and high out-of-pocket costs, hindering access and 
coverage.31  
• Considering the above, Sustainalytics views IDB’s investments related to 
healthcare projects in Latin American and Caribbean countries  to be socially 
impactful.  
- Under the Access to Basic Infrastructure category , IDB may finance or refinance water and 
sanitation, energy, transport, housing and climate disaster recovery projects as per the following 
criteria: 
▪ Water and Sanitation  projects include: i) water management, storage, production, 
treatment plants and distribution facilities to expand access to potable water; ii) 
infrastructure to expand access to sanitation services, including sanitary and 
stormwater sewerage , and wastewater treatment services; iii) improve sanitary 
conditions and reduce pollution in urban waterways and rivers; and iv) comprehensive 
environmental and sanitation education programmes. 
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that water treatment  projects 
financed under this category may also include desalination projects that: i) 
have an appropriate waste management plan for brine disposal; ii) exclude 
integrated water and power plant s with fossil fuel power ; and iii) exclude 
desalination plants with dedicated on -site fossil fuel power.  Sustainalytics 
notes positively that the desalination facilities to be financed will be primarily 
powered by renewable electricity.   
• Sustainalytics considers these expenditures to be socially impactful. 
▪ Energy projects related expenditures include investments for enabling affordable 
access to electricity grid infrastructure and projects to expand access to electricity to 
marginal and rural areas.32 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that investments 
in energy projects will be limited to areas with no access or substantially inadequate 
access to electricity.33 
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that it will exclude transmission grids 
connected to dedicated fossil fuel power plants and power generation plants.  
• Sustainalytics notes that the richest 10% of the population account for 40% of 
the total GHG emissions in Latin America and the Caribbean, while 17 million 
 
30 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that relevant terms to ensure affordability of healthcare facilities and services will be included in the terms and 
conditions of the agreements between IDB and the borrowing country or borrowing public entity. 
31 United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean , “The urgency of investing in health systems in Latin America and the 
Caribbean to reduce inequality and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals ”, (2024), at: https://www.cepal.org/en/publications/80764-urgency-
investing-health-systems-latin-america-and-caribbean-reduce-inequality 
32 IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that the Bank will be following governments’ definitions of rural and marginal areas. 
33 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that areas with substantially inadequate access to electricity will be those where access is not stable as a 
result of repeated power cuts, among other reasons. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
11 
people lack access to electricity. 34 Considering the inequalities regarding 
access to electricity  in Latin America n and Caribbean  countries, 
Sustainalytics views IDB’s financing of energy projects as per the above 
criteria to be socially impactful. 
▪ Transport related expenditures will include construction, upgrade and maintenance of 
road transportation infrastructure for: i) improving connectivity to low -income rural 
areas lacking accessibility to essential services ; and ii) supporting economic 
development of disadvantaged regions by improving access to economic centres. 
• All such projects will be accompanied by an environmental and social impact 
evaluation at the level of individual road corridors. 
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that expenditures will exclude 
construction, upgrade and maintenance of major roads or highways and will 
be limited to roads in underdeveloped rural or Indigenous communities that 
lack connectivity because of unpaved or ungraded roads, lack of pathways or 
because they are remotely located or isolated.  
• Sustainalytics views this expenditure to be socially impactful. 
▪ Housing related e xpenditures will include financing to support construction, 
refurbishing or improvement of affordable housing. 
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that affordable housing projects will 
adhere to the definition of affordable housing set by the governments of the 
borrowing countries. Moreover, IDB has confirmed that each country’s 
regulations will require that the housing remain affordable after 
refurbishments. 
• IDB has further communicated to Sustainalytics that the target population for 
the affordable housing projects will be the Underserved Populations.  
• More than 37% of the households in Latin American and Caribbean countries 
lack adequate housing. The housing deficit in many countries in the region is 
exacerbated by rapid urbanization, economic inequalities and vulnerability to 
natural disasters. 35 Sustainalytics acknowledges the need for improving 
access to affordable housing in Latin American and Caribbean countries and 
notes that the role of IDB is limited to providing financing to governments and 
public institutions for the development, refurbishing and improvement of 
affordable housing . Sustainalytics further notes that IDB  does not have 
control over the detailed criteria and mechanisms for determining 
affordability and encourages the Bank  to provide further disclosure on the 
positive social impact s of its financing allocated to below -median income 
populations, where feasible. 
▪ Climate Disaster Recovery  projects will include financing for the redevelopment and 
reconstruction of public basic infrastructure as well as residential and commercial 
buildings for all target population groups defined in the Framework  and impacted by 
climate disasters.36 
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that : i)  financing for redevelopment 
projects will be limited to disaster-impacted areas ; ii) basic public 
infrastructure will include hospitals, schools, sanitation facilities and roads 37 
and iii) disaster relief housing projects may also include providing basic 
housing kits 38 for the target population s as an interim solution before 
providing them with permanent housing.  
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that public basic infrastructure financed 
as part of this activity will be accessible to all, regardless of ability to pay and 
that disaster relief response, including interim and permanent housing 
 
34 IEA, “Latin America Energy Outlook 2023”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/latin-america-energy-outlook-2023/state-of-play 
35 World Bank, “El costo y la asequibilidad de las soluciones de vivienda en América Latina y el Caribe”, (2022), at: 
https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/099808304282219845/pdf/IDU059c3b27b0eff8040c40b5320b7c4c151513b.pdf 
36 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that reconstruction of disaster-impacted buildings will exclude industrial facilities and buildings designed for 
the purpose of extraction, storage, transportation or manufacture of fossil fuels.  
37 In case of road infrastructure, only public road infrastructure may be included to the extent that it is necessary for provid ing relief. Major roads and 
highways will not be financed where road connectivity is adequate. 
38 IDB defines basic housing kit as kits for prefabricated housing and basic building materials. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
12 
solutions, will be made available free of cost to the disaster -impacted target 
populations. Moreover,  IDB will ensure that the infrastructure remains 
affordable to the target population s by including relevant clauses in the 
agreements signed with each borrowing country. 
• Sustainalytics views expenditures related to climate disaster recovery to be 
socially impactful. 
- Under the Socioeconomic Advancement and Empowerment category, IDB may finance or 
refinance the following: 
▪ Projects aimed at improving youth employability, social inclusion  and gender equality, 
as well as reducing  poverty.39 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that such 
projects will target providing technical vocational education to Vulnerable Populations.  
▪ Programmes supporting cultural education to promote social inclusion. IDB has 
communicated to Sustainalytics that these programmes will be either subsidized or 
available free of cost to the Vulnerable Populations, aiming to improve accessibility to 
cultural education among them.  
▪ Social work programmes for families forced to resettle due to urban project 
developments. IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that expenditures related to 
social work programmes will include  construction and operation of counselling 
centres, rehabilitation centres and related services. IDB has also communicated to 
Sustainalytics that these programmes will be either subsidized or available free of cost 
to the Vulnerable Populations, aiming to improve accessibility and affordability of such 
social work programmes for the target groups. 
▪ Skills development programmes, apprenticeships and internships. IDB has 
communicated to Sustainalytics that these programmes will be either subsidized or 
available free of cost to youth belonging to the Vulnerable Populations, aiming  to 
support in closing skills gaps. 
▪ Programmes aimed at improving access to finance and microfinance and financing to 
minority and women-owned MSMEs.  
• IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that the expenditures under these 
activities will be limited to SMEs and MSMEs to support them in improving 
productivity.  
• IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that expenditures related to these 
programmes will be financed through intermediary financial institutions40 that 
have responsible lending practices in place.  
• IDB’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework applies to all financing 
decisions. Financing to SMEs and MSMEs will exclude activities involving 
child labour, poor working conditions  and negative impact activities such as 
tobacco, firearms or weapons, palm oil and fossil fuel operations.  
• Sustainalytics notes that even though MSMEs account for 99% of formal 
enterprises in Latin American and Caribbean countries, they contribute to only 
3.2% of the region’s combined GDP, highlighting their need to adopt 
technologies and improvement s in production processes. Furthermore, 75% 
of the financial needs of MSMEs in Latin America and the Caribbean remain 
unfunded. Sustainalytics acknowledges the important role of development 
finance institutions in improving access to finance for MSMEs, including in 
supporting them to enhance productivity.41 Nevertheless, Sustainalytics 
encourages IDB to report on the definition of MSMEs used in each country as 
well as the achieved impact. 
▪ Digital inclusion including access to fixed or mobile broadband. IDB has communicated 
to Sustainalytics that the digital inclusion projects will target  the Vulnerable 
Populations, living in areas with no  access to or substantially inadequate access to 
fixed or mobile broadband. IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that  populations 
 
39 IDB has confirmed to Sustainalytics that employment opportunities provided as part of such projects will exclude activities related to oil and gas. 
40 In case of indirect financing provided to MSMEs, IDB extends funding to first -tier intermediary financial institutions, which in turn provide funding to 
second-tier public financial institutions (such as microfinance institutions), which on-lend to MSMEs. 
41 OECD, “Latin American Economic Outlook 2023”, at: https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/development/latin-american-economic-outlook-2023_8c93ff6e-en 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
13 
living in areas with substantially inadequate access to fixed or mobile broadband would 
include areas without 3G or above mobile broadband.  
▪ Considering the above, Sustainalytics views expenditures under this category to be 
socially impactful. 
- Under the Cultural Heritage Preservation category, IDB may finance or refinance the following  
projects: i) renovation of historical buildings; ii) training, consulting services and project 
management systems provided to heritage foundations that manage historical buildings ; iii) 
development and maintenance of urban spaces for artistic and cultural expression , such as 
atriums, markets, museums and squares.  
▪ IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that the historical buildings and urban spaces 
will be accessible to all, regardless of ability to pay. Moreover, individuals belonging to 
the Vulnerable Populations will have access either free of cost or at a lower cost to 
ensure affordability. 
▪ Sustainalytics views expenditures under this category to be impactful and contributing 
towards preserving cultural heritage in Latin American and Caribbean countries. 
- Under the Employment Generation category, IDB may finance or refinance activities related to: 
▪ Projects aimed at improving employability . IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics 
that these projects may include vocational training programmes and job fairs. IDB has 
communicated to Sustainalytics that expenditures related to this activity  will target 
individuals belonging to the V ulnerable Populations and U nderserved Populations. 
Moreover, the job fairs will mostly target supporting SMEs and MSMEs in their 
recruitment processes. 
▪ Financing to MSMEs will include: 
• Programmes to subsidize MSMEs’ climate transition. As part of this activity, 
SMEs and MSMEs will have access to finance at a subsidized rate  for 
investing in energy efficiency technologies, products or equipment.42  
• Development of equality policies and practices . IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that expenditures related to this activity will include training, 
career development and policy -level changes that support or promote such 
training and career development for the Vulnerable Populations. 
• Programmes to promote the development of sustainable tourism projects to 
benefit rural and low-income regional economies. IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that financing under these programmes will be limited to SMEs 
and MSMEs operating in the sustainable tourism sector. 
▪ Expenditures under this category will either be direct financing provided to borrowing 
countries or states for implementing policy-level changes or indirect financing provided 
to MSMEs through intermediary financial ins titutions.43 IDB has confirmed to 
Sustainalytics that for all expenditures related to financing of SMEs and MSMEs, IDB 
will ensure  that the intermediary financial institutions have responsible lending 
practices.44  
▪ Sustainalytics notes that IDB's Environmental and Social Policy Framework is 
applicable to all financing decisions made by the Bank under the Framework and 
financing to SMEs and MSMEs will exclude activities involving  child labour, poor 
working conditions, and negative-impact activities such as tobacco, firearms or 
weapons, palm oil and fossil fuel operations. 
▪ Sustainalytics notes that MSMEs account for 66% of formal employment in Latin 
American and Caribbean countries  and acknowledges the key role of development 
finance institutions  in improving access to finance for MSMEs  and supporting  
employment generation in these countries.45  
 
42 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that energy-efficient technologies designed or intended for processes that are inherently carbon intensive or 
powered by fossil fuels will be excluded. 
43 In case of indirect financing provided to MSMEs, IDB extends funding to first -tier intermediary financial institutions, which in turn provide funding to 
second-tier public financial institutions (such as microfinance institutions), which on-lend to MSMEs. 
44 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that having responsible lending practices will be embedded in the terms and conditions of each loan agreement 
signed with a borrowing intermediary financial institution. 
45 OECD, “Latin American Economic Outlook 2023”, at: https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/development/latin-american-economic-outlook-2023_8c93ff6e-en 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
14 
▪ Considering the above, Sustainalytics views the expenditures under this category to be 
socially impactful. Nevertheless, Sustainalytics  encourages IDB to report on the 
definition of SMEs and MSMEs used in each country. 
- Under the Food Security and Sustainable Food Systems category, IDB may finance or refinance 
the following: i) provision of subsidies to smallholder farmers and agricultural MSMEs for food 
production, aiming to promote food security and access to markets; ii) projects aimed at 
building climate change resilience for smallholder farmers and agricultural MSMEs in rural 
areas, such as enhancing the efficiency of water use in irrigation systems and reducing the risk 
of rural economic losses due to floods; and iii) development of research programmes, initiatives 
and agro-technology projects dedicated to agricultural t ransformation to increase food safety 
and productivity. 
▪ IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that financing provided to smallholder 
farmers and agricultural MSMEs will occur through intermediary financial institutions. 
IDB will ensure that the borrowing intermediary financial institutions adhere to 
responsible lending practices.  
▪ Sustainalytics notes that IDB follows the definition of FAO for smallholder farmers and 
encourages the Bank to report on the definition of agricultural MSMEs. Sustainalytics 
notes the key role of the agriculture sector in the economic growth of Latin American 
and Caribbean countries, and views expenditures under this category to be contributing 
to improving food security in those countries. 
- Under the Security, Justice and Conflict Resolution category , IDB may finance or refinance  
programmes aimed at improving safety for the Vulnerable Populations and Underserved 
Populations. 
▪ Programmes to address societal fragility, conflict and criminal violence will include the 
following: 
• Programmes and training to provide knowledge, skills and opportunities for 
residents of target communities to challenge and change attitudes that 
promote or tolerate violence. IDB has communicated with Sustainalytics that 
such programmes will be aimed at increasing awareness about crime 
reporting and laws among women and the Vulnerable Populations. These may 
also include community-led programmes for the prevention of  violence 
against women. These may be implemented by non -profit organizations and 
expenditure will include the programme s’ implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation costs. 
• Programmes for the social inclusion of young people who have high risk 
factors associated with violence or organized crime . IDB has communicated 
to Sustainalytics that these programmes  involve cognitive therapy for 
juveniles, prisoners or at-risk adolescents46 for changing their attitude 
towards drug abuse and violence.  
• Programmes that support victims in claims processing, accessing social 
services and preventing revictimization . IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that examples of expenditures related to these programmes 
may also include counselling support for victims, legal aid and compensation. 
In case of women victims of domestic violence, the support programmes may 
also include offering guidance on finances, employment , health and 
temporary housing assistance aiming to improve economic and social 
autonomy for women victims. 
▪ Programmes to avoid crime recidivism will include: 
• Rehabilitation program mes that facilitate reintegration in  society, prevent 
crime recidivism and combat organized crime . IDB has communicated to 
Sustainalytics that examples of such rehabilitation programmes may include 
providing legal aid , education , vocational training to former combatants or 
persons released from the prison system. 
 
46 IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that at -risk adolescents are  adolescents who: i)  belong to the Vulnerable Populations and Underserved 
Populations groups; ii) live in areas with high prevalence of crime as per government data; and iii) are at risk of drug abuse, violence or crime recruitment. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
15 
• Construction and operation of socio-cultural centres. IDB has communicated 
to Sustainalytics that such socio -cultural centres can be accessed by all 
regardless of ability to pay and the programmes or sessions organized at the 
socio-cultural centres target adolescents belonging to the target population 
and at-risk of organized crime . These programmes  aim to prevent incidents 
of violence, drug abuse, among others. 
• Rehabilitation of human capital through family care program mes for 
adolescent offenders . IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that family 
care programmes will include afterschool programmes  for adolescents. 
Sustainalytics acknowledges that children living in areas with high prevalence 
of crime are at risk of being exposed to crime or engaging in violence. After-
school programmes can potentially reduce the participants’ violent behaviour 
inside as well as  outside of school . Moreover, research indicates that after-
school programmes can indirectly help in  improving their attendance, 
attitudes toward school as well as learning and academic outcomes.47  
▪ IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that expenditures under this category will 
exclude judicial infrastructure and law enforcement infrastructure.  
▪ Approximately 20% of the population in Latin American and Caribbean countries 
consider violence to be the most pressing problem in their country. Moreover, violence 
from organized crime is viewed to be a critical issue facing the ir well-being.48 IDB 
estimates that crime and violence lead to an average reduction of 3.5% in the GDP of 
the region.49 Considering that crime and violence can hind er overall socio-economic 
development, Sustainalytics acknowledges the need for programmes intended to 
address societal fragility and avoid crime recidivism. Nevertheless, Sustainalytics  
encourages IDB to report on the details of the projects financed under this category 
and on the associated social impacts achieved. 
- Under the State Modernization category , IDB may finance or refinance  the following activities 
targeting the Vulnerable Populations, Underserved Populations and SMEs and MSMEs: 
▪ Upgrade and digitalization of public information systems dedicated to the modification, 
development and implementation of targeted public policies for the Vulnerable 
Populations, Underserved Populations and SMEs and MSMEs with the intention of 
making the resource distribution process for such populations more efficient.  
Examples of eligible expenditures may include upgrades to public information systems 
that provide information on subsidies or tax reimbursements which are relevant for the 
target populations. 
▪ Programmes supporting the digital transformation of public services and improving 
digital connectivity to target populations to improve use of public services. Examples 
of eligible programmes may include digital transformation of cash transfer systems 
and programmes to improve access to digital payments.  
▪ Expenditures related to the development and implementation of systems and 
processes that are specifically dedicated to bringing equity and efficiency in tax 
systems for the target populations. IDB has communicated with Sustainalytics that 
examples of such expenditures may include specific platforms that enable relevant tax 
subsidies and outreach programmes for such populations. 
▪ Programmes that support governments in incorporating climate change into the 
design and implementation of fiscal policies to promote a just and equitable transition 
to green economies . IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that expenditures may 
include: i) employment generation programmes for people who have been impacted by 
climate change; ii) financing of public initiatives for training and creating awareness 
among local communities living in areas prone to natural disasters; iii) engaging with 
 
47 IDB, “When emotion regulation matter s: The Efficacy of Socio -emotional Learning to Address School -based Violence in Central America ”, (2024), at: 
https://publications.iadb.org/en/when-emotion-regulation-matters-efficacy-socio-emotional-learning-address-school-based-violence#:~:text=Back-
,When%20Emotion%20Regulation%20Matters%3A%20The%20Efficacy%20of%20Socio%2DEmotional%20Learning,Based%20Violence%20in%20Central%
20America&text=interventions.,are%20well%2Dbehaved%20at%20school.  
48 World Bank, “Competition: The Missing Ingredient for Growth?”, (2024), at: 
https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/server/api/core/bitstreams/184bce21-8fec-4b14-acad-9ee256e7db93/content 
49 IDB, “IDB Proposes Regional Alliance to Strengthen Security in Latin America and the Caribbean”, (2024), at: https://www.iadb.org/en/news/idb-
proposes-regional-alliance-strengthen-security-latin-america-and-caribbean 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
16 
communities to create local disaster management plans in areas that are most 
vulnerable to natural calamities ; and iv) development and update of relevant local 
government plans to improve emergency response readiness. 
▪ IDB has identified inefficient bureaucracy and inadequate digital progress as two of the 
key challenges that limit the technical and operational capacity of states in Latin 
America and the Caribbean.  
▪ Sustainalytics views expenditures under this category to be contributing to improving 
access to public systems and services for the target populations, and encourages IDB 
to report on the details of the projects financed under this category and on the 
associated social impacts achieved. 
• IDB’s exclusions list in the Bank’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework (ESPF) applies to all 
projects financed under the Framework . The ESPF prohibits activities related to weapons, tobacco, 
gambling, pesticides, thermal coal mining , coal-fired power generation , and upstream oil and gas 
exploration, among others.50 
• Project Evaluation and Selection:  
- IDB’s treasury division, in collaboration with the Bank’s office of strategic planning and 
development effectiveness, selects projects in line with the Framework’s eligibility criteria . As 
part of the project evaluation and selection process, t he Bank’s treasury division consults its 
internal lending specialists.  
- To address environmental  and social risks associated with the projects financed under the 
Framework, all projects financed are screened for potential environmental and social risks in 
line with IDB’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework by the Environmental and Social Risk 
Management Unit  and monitored with two progress report s per year.  Furthermore, IDB’s 
environmental and social specialists classify and rate projects according to the associated 
environmental and social risks.  Sustainalytics considers these risk management processes to 
be adequate. For additional details, refer to Section 2. 
- Based on an established process for project evaluation and selection and the presence of a risk 
management system, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. 
• Management of Proceeds: 
- IDB has communicated to Sustainalytics that it will be managing proceeds on a portfolio basis. 
An amount equal to net proceeds of the issued instruments under the Framework will be 
recorded in a separate sub -account and allocated to credible investments . IDB has 
communicated to Sustainalytics that the Bank’s Treasury department will be responsible for 
management of  proceeds. In the case that the selected projects no longer comply with the 
eligibility criteria in the Framework, IDB will reallocate proceeds to other eligible projects. 
- The Bank will allocate  proceeds fully within 36 months of each issuance. Until full allocation, 
temporary proceeds will be held in cash and cash equivalents, in accordance with IDB’s liquidity 
investment guidelines.  
- Based on the presence of an internal tracking system and disclosure of the temporary use of 
proceeds, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. 
• Reporting: 
- IDB will make an annual allocation and impact report available on IDB Investor Website until full 
allocation of proceeds.  
- Allocation reporting will include the amount of net proceeds from the issued instruments 
allocated to eligible projects per project or category. 
- Impact reporting may include impact indicators such as annual energy savings in MWh ( for 
electricity), annual GHG emissions reduced (tCO2), number of families benefiting from social 
housing, number of students benefited by education projects, number of MSMEs and minority-
owned businesses financed and number of jobs created.  
- Based on the commitments for allocation and impact reporting , Sustainalytics considers this 
process to be in line with market practice. 
 
50 While IDB’s ESPF allows for financing of upstream gas exploration projects under certain circumstances, all such projects will be excluded from financing 
under the Framework.  
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
17 
Alignment with Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2021 
Sustainalytics has determined that the Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework aligns 
with the SBG and the four core components of the GBP and SBP. 
Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of IDB  
Contribution to IDB’s sustainability strategy  
IDB’s institutional strategy is built on three core objectives : i) reducing poverty and inequality; ii) addressing 
climate change; and iii) bolstering sustainable growth. The strategy also focuses on the following seven 
environmental and social areas: i) biodiversity, natural capital and climate action; ii) gender equality and 
inclusion; iii) social protection and human capital development ; i v) institutional capacity ; v) sustainable, 
resilient and inclusive infrastructure; vi) productivity and innovation; and vii) regional integration.51 
As of 31 December 2023, IDB’s active portfolio of sovereign guaranteed loans included 616 projects with an 
undisbursed balance of USD 32.2 billion.52 The Bank renewed its partnership with the UNDP in 2024 to 
streamline processes and support governments in achieving lasting development impacts through SDG -
aligned tools and joint project implementation. 53 IDB’s social development programmes in 2023 included: i) 
healthcare projects to enhance comprehensive coverage and quality of health services in Argentina, Brazil, 
Honduras and Paraguay; ii) education programmes in Argentina, Belize, Brazil, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti and 
Guyana with the aim of enrolling 32,000 new students in the education systems, enhancing the learning 
environment for 64,000 children and improving connectivity to 3,000 schools in remote areas; and iii) technical 
and vocational education projects and training in 15 countries  to enable 25,000 ind ividuals to acquire skills 
for high-quality jobs. 54 Internally, t he Bank’s 2023-2028 Diversity, Equity , and Inclusion Framework sets 
specific targets for 2028, including having 50% representation of women in senior roles, 10% for Afro -
descendants, 8% each for people with disabilities and LGBTQ+ representation across the organization , and 
5% for Indigenous individuals.55 
To support climate change mitigation and adaptation, in 2021, IDB announced its Climate Change Action Plan 
2021-2025 setting a target to have at least 30% of its total approvals dedicated to climate finance by 2025.56 
In 2023,  IDB financed USD 3.53 billion worth of projects related to environment and  climate finance , 
representing 45% of the Bank’s total approvals .57 At COP26 in 2021,  IDB announced its alignment with the 
Paris Agreement and committed to providing USD 24 billion in climate and green finance until 2025. In 2023, 
the Bank launched IDB CLIMA, a result-based approach to stimulate investments in biodiversity and climate 
in Latin American and Caribbean countries by way of offering loan discounts for meeting climate goals.58  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework is 
aligned with the Bank’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives , and will further IDB’s action on its key 
environmental and social priorities.  
Approach to managing environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
Sustainalytics recognizes that the proceeds from the instruments issued under the Framework will be directed 
towards eligible projects that are expected to generate positive environmental and social impacts. However, 
Sustainalytics is aware that such eligible projects could also lead to negative environmental and social 
outcomes. Some key environmental and social risks possibly associated with the eligible projects may include 
issues involving : i) land use and biodiversity; ii) emissions in l arge-scale infr astructure development; iii) 
effluents and waste generated in construction; iv) occupational health and safety; v) community relations and 
stakeholder participation; and vi) lending and business ethics. Sustainalytics acknowledges that IDB plays a 
limited role in the development and implementation of specific projects, but notes that it is exposed to risks 
associated with the companies and projects to which it provides lending and financing. 
 
51 IDB, “IDBStrategy+”, at: https://www.iadb.org/en/who-we-are/institutional-strategy 
52 IDB, “Inter-American Development Bank Annual Report 2023: The Year in Review”, (2024), at: https://publications.iadb.org/en/inter-american-
development-bank-annual-report-2023-year-review 
53 UNDP, “IDB and UNDP Enhance Collaboration”, (2024), at: https://www.undp.org/latin-america/press-releases/idb-and-undp-enhance-collaboration 
54 IDB, “Inter-American Development Bank Annual Report 2023: The Year in Review”, (2024), at: https://publications.iadb.org/en/inter-american-
development-bank-annual-report-2023-year-review 
55 Ibid. 
56 IDB, “Climate Change Action Plan – 2021-2025”, at: https://publications.iadb.org/en/publications/english/viewer/Inter-American-Development-Bank-
Group-Climate-Change-Action-Plan-2021-2025.pdf 
57 IDB, “Inter-American Development Bank Annual Report 2023: The Year in Review”, (2024), at: https://publications.iadb.org/en/inter-american-
development-bank-annual-report-2023-year-review 
58 IDB, “Inter-American Development Bank Annual Report 2023: The Year in Review”, (2024), at: https://publications.iadb.org/en/inter-american-
development-bank-annual-report-2023-year-review 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
18 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that IDB is able to manage or mitigate potential risks through implementation 
of the following:  
• To manage risks associated with land use and biodiversity, IDB follows its Environment and 
Biodiversity Sector Framework Document , which sets strategies for landscape management and 
securing property rights to combat deforestation. 59 In addition, the  Guidance for Assessing and 
Managing Biodiversity Impacts and Risks  in Inter -American Development Bank Supported 
Operations document includes the Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies (OP -703) which 
require environmental assessments and use of a mitigation hierarchy to manage biodiversity 
impacts. IDB also requires projects with significant risks to develop biodiversity action plans, and 
environmental and social management plans for ongoing monitoring and adaptive management. The 
precautionary principle and biodiversity offsets are also applied to compensate for residual impacts, 
supported by early biodiversity screening and classification systems.60  
• Regarding emissions in large -scale infrastructure development, the Bank’s ESPF provides a 
comprehensive approach to managing environmental and social risks, and identifying and mitigating 
potential negative impacts on the environment and society. The ESPF also addresses a wide range 
of issues, including human rights, health and safety, biodiversity protection and environmental 
sustainability, mandating projects to follow best practices and legal requirements.61  
• The IDB’s Water and Sanitation Sector Framework Document mandates the integration of water 
resources management in sanitation services, focusing on the mitigation of pollution, proper waste 
disposal and the improvement in resilience to climate risks. The document also requires projects to 
have measures to safeguard water quality, prevent overexploitation and improve the efficiency of 
service providers.62 
• Regarding occupational health and safety,  IDB addresses workplace hazards through its 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Unit. This  unit is in charge of monitoring and enforcing the 
safety measures and protocols for project activities that might expose workers to risks . IDB’s 
Community Health and Safety guidelines require projects to have measures such as the provision of 
protective equipment, safety training and the monitoring of working conditions to improve safety 
outcomes. IDB integrates these requirements into its environmental and social impact assessments 
and project management processes to mitigate occupational health risks.63, 64 
• The IDB’s Guidelines on Consultation and Stakeholder Engagement provide support to borrowers in 
carrying out public consultations in IDB -financed projects. These guidelines complement IDB’s 
safeguard policies, advising borrowers on how to engage with affected communities, convey project 
impacts and establish grievance mechanisms. These measures are designed to manage social risks 
and foster meaningful participation, particularly in projects with significant environmental or social 
impacts.65  
• IDB addresses lending and business ethics risks through its Office of Institutional Integrity (OII), 
which investigates and prevents prohibited practices , such as fraud, corruption and money 
laundering. The OII is responsible for conducting Integrity Due Diligence assessments and ensuring 
compliance with the Bank’s Anti -Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism 
standards.66 Additionally, the IDB’s Integrity Framework sets guidelines for managing integrity risks 
in its operations, including the investigation of prohibited practices and the imposition of sanctions 
when necessary. 67 These processes are supported by the Independent Consultation and 
Investigation Mechanism which provides a formal channel for addressing non-compliance with IDB’s 
 
59 IDB, “Environment and Biodiversity Sector Framework Document”, at: https://www.iadb.org/en/who-we-are/topics/environment-and-natural-
resources/sector-framework-environment-and-natural 
60 IDB, “Guidance for Assessing and Managing Biodiversity Impacts and Risks in Inter-American Development Bank Supported Operations”, (2015), at: 
https://publications.iadb.org/en/guidance-assessing-and-managing-biodiversity-impacts-and-risks-inter-american-development-bank 
61 IDB, “Environmental and Social Policy Framework”, at: https://www.iadb.org/en/who-we-are/topics/environmental-and-social-
solutions/environmental-and-social-policy-framework 
62 IDB, “Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Sector Framework Document”, at: https://www.iadb.org/en/who-we-are/topics/water-and-sanitation/sector-
framework-water-and-sanitation 
63 IDB, “Occupational Safety and Health in Latin America and the Caribbean: Overview, Issues and Policy Recommendations”, at: 
https://publications.iadb.org/en/occupational-safety-and-health-latin-america-and-caribbean-overview-issues-and-policy 
64 IDB, “Community Health and Safety: Recommendations and Tools”, (2011), at: https://publications.iadb.org/en/community-health-and-safety-
recommendations-and-tools 
65 IDB, “Guidelines on Consultation and Stakeholder Engagement in IDB Projects”, at: 
https://publications.iadb.org/en/publications/english/viewer/Guidelines-on-Consultation-and-Stakeholder-Engagement-in-IDB-Projects.pdf 
66 IDB, “The Office of Institutional Integrity”, at: https://www.iadb.org/en/who-we-are/transparency/sanctions-system/office-institutional-integrity 
67 IDB, “Integrity Framework”, at: https://www.iadb.org/en/who-we-are/transparency/sanctions-system/sanctions-system-key-documents 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
19 
operational policies.68 Additionally, the Bank’s Code of Ethics requires employees to avoid conflicts 
of interest, disclose potential conflicts and ensure transparency in financial dealings.69 
Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that IDB has 
implemented adequate measures and is well  positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social 
risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
All use of proceeds categories are aligned with those recognized by  the GBP and SBP. Sustainalytics has 
focused on two below where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. 
Importance of improved access to education in Latin America and the Caribbean  
Access to school in Latin America and the Caribbean improved from 1 in 4 children being out of school in 
1989 to 1 in 10 in 2019.70 However, less than 50% of students finish secondary school, showing that learning 
outcomes did not improve in the region at the same rate as access to primary school. 71 Socio-economic 
disparities and regional inequalities are major factors behind these outcomes, particularly in rural areas, where 
only 30% of students from the poorest income quintiles complete secondary education.72 Moreover, after the 
Covid-19 pandemic learning poverty in Latin American and Caribbean countries is now estimated to be much 
higher than 50%.73  
To effectively support expanded access to good quality education, UNESCO recommends bringing education 
expenditures to 15-20% of public expenditure.74 Countries in Latin America and the Caribbean currently direct 
15% of their GDP per capita for primary and secondary education, and 26% for tertiary education, trailing 
behind Europe  and the US and Canada , where government spending per student is among the highest 
globally.75 In response, IDB, in conjunction with another multilateral development bank, is investing more than 
USD 500 million to advance digital education  in Latin American and Caribbean countries , aiming to connect 
3.5 million students and train 350,000 teachers across 16 countries. This initiative includes: i) building digital 
skills; ii) increasing access to connectivity and devices ; and iv) creating resources to improve educational 
outcomes. An additional USD 400 million is planned to further expand these programmes over the next two 
years. These efforts aim to build resilient  and equitable education systems and reduce the learning crisis in 
the region .76 Additionally, in the Santiago Declaration of 2024 , governments in Latin America and the 
Caribbean have committed to increasing educational financing through tax reforms, debt relief and public -
private partnerships to achieve the 2030 Agenda ’s educational goals , with recovery strategies focused on 
digital infrastructure and teacher training.77  
In this context, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that IDB’s investments in education will significantly enhance 
access to quality education throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. 
 
Importance of financing renewable energy projects in Latin America and the Caribbean 
In 2023, two-thirds of the energy used in Latin America and the Caribbean  was derived from fossil fuels. 78 
Even though the region accounts for just 5% of global cumulative energy-related GHG emissions and the share 
of coal in the region’s energy mix is low, oil use remains relatively high. 79 Moreover, transitioning energy 
 
68 MICI, “Policy of the Independent Consultation and Investigation Mechanism of IDB”, (2021), at: https://mici.iadb.org/en/guide-filing-complaint  
69 IDB, “Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct”, at: https://www.iadb.org/en/who-we-are/transparency/ethics-and-professional-conduct 
70 World Bank, “Tackling the Learning Crisis in Latin America and the Caribbean”, (2024), at: https://www.worldbank.org/en/results/2024/03/22/tackling-
the-learning-crisis-in-latin-america-and-the-caribbean 
71 Results for development, “Reducing Secondary School Dropouts in Latin America and the Caribbean: Policy Lessons and Recommendations”, at: 
https://r4d.org/projects/reducing-secondary-school-dropouts-latin-america-caribbean-policy-lessons-recommendations/ 
72 Ibid. 
73 World Bank Group,” What is Learning Poverty?”, at: https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/education/brief/what-is-learning-poverty\ 
74 UNESCO, “Education in Latin America and the Caribbean at a crossroads”, (2022), at: 
https://repositorio.cepal.org/bitstream/handle/11362/48154/3/S2200833_en.pdf 
75 Ibid. 
76 World Bank Group, “IDB and World Bank to Boost Digital Transformation in Education in Latin America and the Caribbean”, (2023), at: 
https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2023/10/30/world-bank-idb-digital-transformation-education-latin-america-caribbean 
77 United Nations ECLAC, “ Education can’t wait: Enabling conditions and investment for a better future in Latin America and the Caribbean ”, (2024), at: 
https://www.cepal.org/en/events/education-cant-wait-enabling-conditions-and-investment-better-future-latin-america-and  
78 IEA, “Latin America Energy Outlook 2023”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/latin-america-energy-outlook-2023/executive-summary  
79 IEA, “Latin America Energy Outlook 2023”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/latin-america-energy-outlook-2023/state-of-play 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
20 
sectors in Latin American and Caribbean countries  is expected to be challenging , with energy demand 
projected to rise by more than 50% by 2050 from 2023.80  
Sixteen of 33 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean  have pledged to achieve net zero emissions by 
2050, considering the region’s rich natural resources and the high potential for the development of renewable 
energy generation projects, such as bioenergy, solar and wind.81 Achieving these targets, however, will require 
a boost in investments in clean energy technologies  and international support, including increased climate 
finance.82 A relatively slow period of GDP growth over the past decade slowed the realization of the region’s 
untapped energy potential, but in an effort to increase investment, governments have started introducing GHG 
mitigation initiatives.83 In 2024, Brazil and Chile were among the  top 20 countries in the world in terms of 
progress on the energy transition , having increased renewable energy  generation and the share of clean 
energy in the ir energy mix, in addition to  enhancing a supportive regulatory environment for the energy 
transition, among other measures. 84 All countries in  the region have submitted their first NDC and 29 have 
updated them to set more ambitious targets, with one -third expli citly mentionin g an absolute or relative 
emissions reduction target.85 However, despite this momentum, to meet the net zero emissions targets by 
2050, the region will need to significantly accelerate clean energy investments , quadrupling them between 
2026 and 2030 in comparison with the preceding decade.86 
Considering the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that IDB’s investments in renewable energy projects 
are expected to have a positive effect on the reduction of GHG emissions in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
Contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals were adopted in September 2015 by the United Nations General 
Assembly and form part of an agenda for achieving sustainable development by 2030. The instruments issued 
under the Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework are expected to help advance the 
following SDGs and targets:  
Use of Proceeds 
Category SDG SDG target 
Energy and Resource 
Efficiency 
7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy  
7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of 
improvement in energy efficiency  
Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy  
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix  
Environmentally 
Sustainable Management 
of Living Natural 
Resources and Land Use 
15. Life on Land 
15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, 
restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial 
and inland freshwater ecosystems and their 
services, in particular forests, wetlands, 
mountains and drylands, in line with 
obligations under international agreements 
15.2 By 2020, promote the implementation of 
sustainable management of all types of 
forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded 
forests and substantially increase afforestation 
and reforestation globally 
Climate Adaptation and 
Mitigation 13. Climate Action 
13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive 
capacity to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
Clean Transportation  11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities  
11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, 
affordable, accessible and sustainable 
transport systems for all, improving road 
safety, notably by expanding public transport, 
 
80 World Bank Blogs, “From potential to action: energy efficiency in Latin America”, at: https://blogs.worldbank.org/en/energy/potential-action-energy-
efficiency-latin-america  
81 IEA, “Latin America Energy Outlook 2023”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/latin-america-energy-outlook-2023/state-of-play 
82 IEA, “World Energy Investment 2024”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-investment-2024/latin-america-and-the-caribbean  
83 Ibid. 
84 World Economic Forum, “How Brazil and Chile are leading Latin America’s energy transition”, (2024), at: 
https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2024/07/brazil-chile-latin-america-energy-transition/ 
85 IEA, “World Energy Investment 2024”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-investment-2024/latin-america-and-the-caribbean 
86 IEA, “Latin America and the Caribbean”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-investment-2024/latin-america-and-the-caribbean   
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
21 
with special attention to the needs of those in 
vulnerable situations, women, children, persons 
with disabilities and older persons  
Sustainable Water and 
Wastewater 
Management  
6. Clean Water and 
Sanitation 
6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing 
pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing 
release of hazardous chemicals and materials, 
halving the proportion of untreated wastewater 
and substantially increasing recycling and safe 
reuse globally  
Pollution Prevention and 
Control  
11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities 
11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita 
environmental impact of cities, including by 
paying special attention to air quality and 
municipal and other waste management 
Access to Essential 
Services  
3. Good Health and Well-
being  
3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, 
including financial risk protection, access to 
quality essential health-care services and 
access to safe, effective, quality and affordable 
essential medicines and vaccines for all 
4. Quality Education 
4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys 
complete free, equitable and quality primary 
and secondary education leading to relevant 
and effective learning outcomes 
Access to Basic 
Infrastructure  
6. Clean Water and 
Sanitation 
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use 
efficiency across all sectors and ensure 
sustainable withdrawals and supply of 
freshwater to address water scarcity and 
substantially reduce the number of people 
suffering from water scarcity 
7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to 
affordable, reliable and modern energy 
services 
11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities 
11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to 
adequate, safe and affordable housing and 
basic services and upgrade slums. 
13. Climate Action 
13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive 
capacity to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries 
Socioeconomic 
Advancement and 
Empowerment  
8. Decent Work and 
Economic Growth 
8.3 Promote development-oriented policies 
that support productive activities, decent job 
creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and 
innovation, and encourage the formalization 
and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized 
enterprises, including through access to 
financial services 
10. Reduce Inequalities 
10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the 
social, economic and political inclusion of all, 
irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, 
ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other 
status 
Cultural Heritage 
Preservation  
11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities 
11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and 
safeguard the world’s cultural and natural 
heritage 
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
22 
Employment Generation  
4.Quality Education 
4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number 
of youth and adults who have relevant skills, 
including technical and vocational skills, for 
employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship 
8. Decent Work and 
Economic Growth 
8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive 
employment and decent work for all women 
and men, including for young people and 
persons with disabilities, and equal pay for 
work of equal value 
Food Security and 
Sustainable Food 
Systems  
2. Zero Hunger  
2.1 By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by 
all people, in particular the poor and people in 
vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, 
nutritious and sufficient food all year round 
Security, Justice and 
Conflict Resolution  
16. Peace, Justice and 
Strong Institutions 
16.1 Significantly reduce all forms of violence 
and related death rates everywhere  
State Modernization  17. Partnerships for the 
Goals 
17.1 Strengthen domestic resource 
mobilization, including through international 
support to developing countries, to improve 
domestic capacity for tax and other revenue 
collection 
Conclusion  
IDB has developed the Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework, under which the Bank 
intends to issue green, social and sustainability bonds and use the proceeds to finance and refinance, in whole 
or in part, existing and future public sector projects that are expected to generate positive environmental and 
social impacts.  
The Framework outlines a process for the tracking, allocation and management of proceeds and makes 
commitments for reporting on allocation and impact. Sustainalytics considers that the Framework is aligned 
with IDB’s overall sustainability strategy and that the use of proceeds will contribute to advance UN 
Sustainable Development Goals 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16 and 17 . Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion that IDB has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks 
commonly associated with the eligible projects.  
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Inter-American Development Bank is well positioned to 
issue green, social and sustainability bonds and that the Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt 
Framework is robust, transparent and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond 
Principles 2021 and Social Bond Principles 2023. 
 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
23 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2024 Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of 
Sustainalytics and/or content providers, and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format 
disclosed by Sustainalytics. They are not dir ected to, or intended for distribution to or use by India -based 
clients or users and their distribution to Indian resident individuals or entities is not permitted. 
They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) shall not be considered as being a statement, 
representation, warranty or argument either in favor or against the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of 
any facts or statements that the issuer has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this deliverable, 
in light of the circumstances under which such facts or statements have been presented; (2) do not constitute 
an endorsement of any product , project, investment strategy or consideration of any particular environmental, 
social or governance related issues as part of any investment strategy; (3) do not constitute investment 
advice, financial advice, or a prospectus, nor represent an “expert opinion” or “negative assurance letter” as 
these terms are commonly understood or defined by any applicable legislation; (4) are not part of any offering 
and do not constitute an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of 
business transactions; (5) do not  represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial 
obligations nor of its creditworthiness; (6) are not a substitute for professional advice; (7) past performance 
is no guarantee of future results; (8) have not been submitted to, nor received approval from, any relevant 
regulatory body; (9) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure, unless otherwise agreed 
in writing. 
These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their 
merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up -to-datedness or fitness for a particular purpose Sustainalytics 
has not independently verified any such information or data. The deliverables are provided “as is” and reflect 
Sustainalytics’ opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics does not undertake any 
obligation to update or revise any of the statements in the deliverable to re flect events, circumstances, 
changes in expectations which may occur after the date of the opinion or any statements included in the 
opinion. Neither Sustainalytics/Morningstar nor their content providers accept any liability from the use of the 
information, data or opinions contained herein or for actions of third parties in respect to this information, in 
any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Sustainalytics does not assume any 
responsibility shall the bond default. Any reference to content providers’ names is for appropriate 
acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. 
A list of our content providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more 
information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 
Sustainalytics may receive compensation for its ratings, opinions and other deliverables, from, among others, 
issuers, insurers, guarantors and/or underwriters of debt securities, or investors, via different business units. 
Sustainalytics believes it has p ut in place appropriate measures designed to safeguard the objectivity and 
independence of its opinions. For more information, visit Governance Documents  or contact 
compliance@sustainalytics.com.  
This deliverable, in particular the images, text and graphics contained therein, and the layout and company 
logo of Sustainalytics are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof shall require express 
prior written consent. Use shall be de emed to refer in particular to the copying or duplication of the opinion 
wholly or in part, the distribution of the opinion, either free of charge or against payment, or the exploitation 
of this opinion in any other conceivable manner. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Inter-American Development Bank Sustainable Debt Framework  
  
 
  
 
24 
About Morningstar Sustainalytics 
Morningstar Sustainalytics is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around 
the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. For more than 30 
years, the firm has been at the forefront of  developing high-quality, innovative solutions to meet the evolving 
needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers 
and pension funds, which incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their 
investment processes. Sustainalytics also works with hundreds of companies and their financial 
intermediaries to help them consider sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. For more 
information, visit www.sustainalytics.com.