VERIFICATION REPORT FOR PRE-ISSUANCE CERTIFICATION 
For the Green Bond of the Development Bank of Kazakhstan
 
Verification report for the pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of the Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
1 
 
Assessment Summary  
  
 
AIFC Green Finance Centre Ltd. (GFC), based on the limited assur ance procedures 
conducted and evidence obtained, has provided an assuranc e opinion that nothing 
has come to its attention that causes GFC to believe that, in all material respects the 
Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC’s (DBK, Bank) Green Bond seeking certification 
is not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard Versio n 4.0 and the sector-
specific Wind and Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria. This assurance opinion is based on 
the following:  
Evaluation Date: 15 December, 2023 
Issuer Location: Astana, Kazakhstan 
For Inquiries Contact the GFC 
verification team: 
 
Aigul Kussaliyeva, Head of External 
review Assignments, Advisor, GFC 
A.kussaliyeva@aifc.kz 
 
Milana Takhanova, Senior 
Economist, GFC 
M.Takhanova@aifc.kz 
 
UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS. The Nominated Eligible Assets and Projects for the use 
of proceeds: 
• Construction of a 15 MW Wind power plant Jasil Jel Energy p roject in Akmola 
region, Kazakhstan,  
• Construction of a 153 MW Wind power plant Khromtau projec t, Aktobe region, 
Kazakhstan 
• Construction of a 50 MW Solar power station Balkhash, Ka raganda region, 
Kazakhstan 
 
– are aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 and  the sector-specific 
Wind and Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria. GFC considers that investments in the eligible 
Nominated projects will lead to positive environmental impacts and help in reducing 
Kazakhstan’s contribution to climate change. 
 
PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION. DBK has established a process for green 
project selection and evaluation carried out in accordance  with the Bank’s internal 
regulations on review, financing, monitoring and implementat ion of investment 
projects, and its Green Bond Framework, with responsible structural units submitting 
to the Credit Committee materials on the compliance or no n-compliance of an 
investment project with green project categories and criteria, including cases of bonds 
seeking certification. GFC considers that the project selection process is aligned with 
the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 in terms of establi shing, documenting, and 
maintaining a decision-making process to determine the eligibility of the Nominated 
projects and assets. 
 
MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS . Allocation of DBK’s Green Bond proceeds is 
accounted for through a special off-system sub-account "Green Bonds" (in Excel) for 
separate accounting and control of Green Bond use of procee ds. The Bank has 
identified a structural unit responsible for organizing, ensuring, and implementing an 
effective Green Bond management process to account for the sub-account, as well as 
to maintain a Registry of green projects tracking projects financed and / or refinanced 
with green bond proceeds. GFC considers that the management  of proceeds is 
aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 in terms of tracking of proceeds, 
Managing unallocated proceeds, Earmarking funds to Nominated projects and assets, 
as well as documenting and disclosing the related processes to the verifier. 
 
REPORTING. The Issuer adopted a Green Bond Framework and made it available prior 
to issuance. According to green bond disclosure requirement s in the Green Bond 
Framework, the Bank intends to provide and keep publicly avai lable annual updated 
reports on issued Green Bonds, including certified bonds, from the date of issue until 
full repayment and in case of any significant changes, covering  the report on the 
allocation of proceeds and on the environmental impact of  each project. The 
nominated project identified for the green bond seeking certification shall be 
disclosed in the Bond Prospectus and the pre-issuance Assurance  report. GFC 
considers that the reporting processes are aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard 
Version 4.0 in terms of disclosing Nominated Projects inv ested in, the intended 
approach to providing update reports to reaffirm confor mance with the Green Bond 
Framework, as well as external review aspects. 
  

 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
2 
 
 
Table of Contents 
2. Scope .................................................. ................................................... ............................................... 3 
3. Subject matter and criteria .................................................. ................................................... .............. 4 
4. Work performed .................................................. ................................................... .............................. 4 
5. Responsibility of Issuer .................................................. ................................................... .................... 5 
6. Assurance opinion .................................................. ................................................... ........................... 5 
7. GFC Disclaimer .................................................. ................................................... ................................. 5 
8. About GFC................................................... ................................................... ....................................... 6 
Appendix II. List of Documents Reviewed .......................................................................... .............................18 
Appendix III. Assurance Procedures and Findings ...................................................................... .....................19 
Climate Bonds Initiative Disclaimer ........................................................................... .....................................20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
3 
 
2. Scope 
 
Issuing Entity Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC 
Issuer Group (if different from above)  
Date of Green Bond Framework of Issuer Adopted on February 1st, 2022 (#5/22) by Management 
Board, as amended on November 21st, 2022, (#85/23) 
Approved Verifier Firm AIFC Green Finance Centre Ltd. (GFC) 
Signatory of the audit opinion Nursultan Serikbay, CEO 
Email address in relation to this report Greenfinance@aifc.kz; M.Takhanova@aifc.kz 
Debt Instrument Type(s) bond 
Debt Instrument(s)/Program Name Green Bond 
Refinancing/Financing new projects 100 % of allocation of proceeds to financing new projects 
Expected period over which proceeds will be 
allocated  
1 year 
Expected Size of Debt Issuance (if known) 15 mln USD 
Expected Debt Issuance Date (if known) 20-22 December 2023 
Sector Criteria governing the Project/Assets to 
be financed 
Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria of the Climate Bonds 
Standard & Certification Scheme 
Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria of the Climate Bonds 
Standard 
Adaptation & Resilience Requirements N/A 
Project/Assets to be financed Bank loan transactions to finance:  
1) Construction of a Wind power plant Jasil Jel 
Energy with a capacity of 15 MW in Akmola 
region, Kazakhstan. The project in question is part 
of a larger mid-term wind power project titled 
“Modernization of a 220.95 MW wind farm in the 
Akmola region” consisting of 5 different wind 
power plants (Borey wind farm 100 MW, 
EnergoTrust wind farm 50 MW, Sofievskaya wind 
farm 40 MW, Arkalykskaya wind farm 15 MW and 
Jasil Jel Energy wind farm 15 MW) 
 
2) Construction and commissioning of a Wind power 
development project with a total installed capacity 
of about 153 MW, near the city of Khromtau, 
Aktobe region, Kazakhstan (Khromtau Wind Power 
Plant) 
 
3) Construction of a stage 2 solar power station 
Balkhash 50 MW near town Balkhash, Karaganda 
region (2nd stage of an aggregate 100 MW 
Balkhash SPP) 
Assurance Opinion Limited 
Assurance Standard ISAE3000  
Period over which the verification work was 
conducted 
1 month 
Date of Issuance of Verification Report December 15th, 2023 
 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
4 
 
AIFC Green Finance Centre Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as GFC) was engaged by the Dev elopment Bank of 
Kazakhstan JSC (hereinafter referred to as DBK, or Bank) to undertake a limited assuran ce engagement, in 
relation to a 15 MW Wind power development project in Akmola regi on, Kazakhstan, a 153 MW Wind power 
development project in Khromtau, Aktobe region, Kazakhstan, and a Balkhash 50 MW solar power station near 
town Balkhash, Karaganda, Kazakhstan, and the corresponding Green Bond seeking certific ation. This includes 
confirming the eligibility of the Green Bond and the 2 WPP and 1 SPP development projects against the Climate 
Bonds Initiative Standard Version 4.0 Pre-issuance Requirements and the t echnical requirements of the 
applicable Sector Criteria. 
 
 
3. Subject matter and criteria 
 
• The subject matter for this limited assurance engagement includes The Climate Bonds Standard Version 
4.0, and the relevant sector criteria as follows: 
 
Detailed list of Project/Assets to be financed (1) Sector Criteria Document; (2) Page 
number(s) and paragraphs/references used to 
confirm the project/asset eligibility. 
Bank loan transactions to finance: 
1) Construction of a Wind power plant Jasil Jel 
Energy with a capacity of 15 MW in Akmola 
region. The project in question is part of a 
larger mid-term wind power project titled 
“Modernization of a 220.95 MW wind farm 
in the Akmola region” consisting of 5 
different wind power plants (Borey wind 
farm 100 MW, EnergoTrust wind farm 50 
MW, Sofievskaya wind farm 40 MW, 
Arkalykskaya wind farm 15 MW and Jasil Jel 
Energy wind farm 15 MW) 
 
2) Construction and commissioning of a Wind 
power development project with a total 
installed capacity of about 153 MW, near 
the city of Khromtau, Aktobe region 
(Khromtau Wind Power Plant) 
(1) The Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria (Rev. 1.3 as of 13 
April 2023; (2) Page 5, “Onshore wind energy 
generation facilities” - Automatically eligible 
Bank loan transaction to finance: 
3) Construction of a stage 2 solar power station 
Balkhash 50 MW near town Balkhash, 
Karaganda region (2nd stage of an aggregate 
100 MW Balkhash SPP) 
 
(1) The Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria (Rev 2.3 as of 13 
April 2023; (2) Page 5, “Onshore solar energy 
generation facilities” – Eligible if a minimum of 85% of 
electricity is generated from solar energy resources
 
 
 
4. Work performed 
 
The assurance procedures performed included, but were not limited to: 
• Assessing the Green Bond Framework against the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 
• Assessing technical information on the two wind and 1 solar power d evelopment projects in consideration 
(a) 15 MW Jasil Jel Energy Wind Power Plant, b) 153 MW Khromtau Wind Power Plant; c) 50 MW Balkhash 
 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
5 
 
Solar Power Station, Karaganda region,  against the technical requirements of the Wind and Solar Sector 
Eligibility Criteria   
• Documentation reviewed supporting assertions made in the Subject Matter (provide details in Appendix) 
• Interviews with Issuer representatives, experts  
• Seeking management representation on key assertions. 
 
 
5. Responsibility of Issuer 
 
The management of GFC is responsible for the preparation and fair presentat ion of the Subject Matter. This 
responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal cont rols relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the Subject Matter that is free from material misstatement,  whether due to fraud or error, 
selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making  reasonable estimates under the current 
circumstances. 
  
 
6. Assurance opinion  
 
GFC conducted the pre-issuance verification in accordance with th e International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements 3000 (Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews  of Historical Information). GFC’s 
verification approach draws on an understanding of the risks associated with conforming to the Climate Bond 
Standard Version 4.0 and the controls in place to mitigate these. GFC planned and performed the verification by 
obtaining evidence and other information and explanations that GFC considers necessary to give assurance that 
the Debt Instrument meets the requirements of the Climate Bond Standard Version 4.0.  
 
Limited Assurance 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained,  nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects th e Issuer’s Green Bond seeking certification is 
not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 and the sector-specific Wind and Solar Sector 
Eligibility Criteria. Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and 
are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. 
 
Our independence and quality control  
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requir ements of GFC’s Code of Ethics and 
Professional Conduct based on the Code of Business Ethics and Stand ards of Professional Conduct1 developed 
by the CFA Institute and the Extended Materials of the Code o f Business Ethics and Standards of Professional 
Conduct, taking into account the requirements of the Code of Ethics of Professional Accountants that are 
members of the Association "Chamber of Professional Accountants of  the Republic of Kazakhstan”, which is 
founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour. 
GFC applies International Standard for Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1) 2 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive 
system of quality control including documented policies and  procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
 
 
7. GFC Disclaimer 
 
1  This statement of adherence to the principles of the CFA Institute Code of Conduct is not verified by the CFA Institute. 
2 International Standard on Quality Control 1: Quality control for firms that perform audits and reviews of financial 
statements, and other assurance and related services engagements. This statement of adherence to the principles of the 
IFAC standard has not been verified 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
7  
Appendix I. Completed Pre-Issuance Verification Checklist  
Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verification 
activity Findings Conclusion on Compliance with Requirement 
1.1 The Issuer shall document the Nominated 
Projects & Assets which are proposed to be 
associated with the Bond and which have been 
assessed as likely to be Eligible Projects & 
Assets. The Issuer must establish a list of 
Nominated Projects & Assets which must be 
kept up-to-date during the term of the Bond. 
B,  
C.1.1.,  
C.1.4., 
C.2.1., 
C.2.5 
Document 
review, 
Interview 
The proposed green bond (hereinafter referred to as Bond) to be issued by DBK is to finance 3 bank 
loan transactions associated with the following wind and solar power development projects: 
• Construction of a Wind power plant Jasil Jel Energy with a capacity of 15 MW in Akmola 
region. The project in question is part of a larger mid-term wind power project titled 
“Modernization of a 220.95 MW wind farm in the Akmola region” consisting of 5 different 
wind power plants (Borey wind farm 100 MW, EnergoTrust wind farm 50 MW, 
Sofievskaya wind farm 40 MW, Arkalykskaya wind farm 15 MW and Jasil Jel Energy wind 
farm 15 MW) 
• Construction and commissioning of a Wind power development project with a total 
installed capacity of about 153 MW, near the city of Khromtau, Aktobe region (Khromtau 
Wind Power Plant) 
• Construction of a second stage Solar power station Balkhash 50 MW near town Balkhash, 
Karaganda region (2nd stage of an aggregate 100 MW Balkhash SPP)  
The nominated projects were recommended by DBK's project managers (responsible for initial ESG 
screening) for inclusion in the list of nominated projects eligi ble for financing through issuance of 
certified green bonds in accordance with the Green Bond Framework. GFC reviewed these internal 
recommendations for the inclusion of the projects to the list of nominated projects eligible for 
financing through issuance of certified green bonds, and also confirmed wi th DBK that for Project 
#2 (Khromtau Wind Power Plant ) there’s a Credit Committee approval (reviewed by GFC), while 
Projects #1 (Jasil Jel WPP) and #3 (Balkhash SPP) are undergoing internal bank credit assessment as 
of the time of report preparation.  
Thus, the proposed Bond is for new loans and no subsequent use of p roceeds is proposed, the 
documented decision-making process used is covered by the written do cumentation for the 
nominated projects. The specific project will be identified in the bond issuance prospectus. 
DBK issues other green bonds, however the environmental objectives associat ed with the Bond 
seeking certification have been clearly defined by and limited to the project that complies with the 
Wind and Solar Energy Technical Criteria of the Climate Bond Standard.  
Compliant with the requirement 
1.2 The expected Net Proceeds of the Bond  
shall be no greater than the Issuer’s total 
investment exposure to the proposed 
Nominated Projects & Assets, or the relevant 
proportion of the total Market Value of the 
proposed Nominated Projects & Assets which 
are owned or funded by the Issuer. 
Credit 
Committe
e 
decisions, 
A, 
B 
 According to DBK’s Green Bond Framework, when issuing green bonds for which the Bank expects 
to be certified under the CBI Standard, the nominated green projects  eligible for financing and/or 
refinancing with green bond proceeds are determined in accordance wi th the CBI Technical 
Eligibility Criteria, taking into account all the requirements of the of the Climate Bond Standard CBI 
Standard. In particular, the expected net proceeds from the issuance of such green bond will not 
exceed the Bank's total investment in the nominated green projects or  the Bank's financing share 
of the total market value of the nominated green projects.   
As per information obtained from the Issuer, the Green Bonds will be  issued in USD. 
GFC, through the review of the current eligible project summary, veri fied that DBK’s expected 
exposure to the nominated projects, i.e the expected aggregate loan amount is USD 187,309,000 in 
total for all 3 projects (of which at least USD 15,000,000 is the smallest loan transaction), which is 
greater than the bond issuance value (USD 15,000,000).  
Overall, in its GBF the Bank declares that 100% of the proceed s from green bonds will be used to 
finance and / or refinance green projects that have specific environmental  benefits and can be 
measured by quantitatively and qualitatively. 
Compliant with the requirement 
1.3 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be 
nominated to other Certified Debt 
A, 
C.1.1.,  
C.1.4., 
 According to DBK’s Green Bond Framework, when issuing green bonds for which the Bank expects 
to be certified under the CBI Standard, the nominated green projects cannot be attributed to other 
Compliant with the requirement 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
8  
Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verification 
activity Findings Conclusion on Compliance with Requirement 
instruments unless it is demonstrated by the 
Issuer that: 
C.2.1., 
C.2
.5 
CBI certified green bonds unless the Bank demonstrates that different parts of the nominated green 
projects are financed by different certified bonds, or the certified bo nds are being refinanced by 
issuing other certified bonds. 
The nominated projects have not been earmarked or otherwise nominated  in other Certified 
Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Bonds, green bonds, green loans or 
other labelled Bonds.  
No previous Climate Bond has been issued in respect to the nominated  project as confirmed with 
DBK representatives. 
1.3.1 Distinct portions of the Nominated 
Projects & Assets are being funded by 
different Certified Debt instruments; or, 
 Cross-
checking Not Applicable.  
1.3.2 The existing Certified Climate Bond, 
Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate Debt 
Instrument is being refinanced via another 
Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or 
Certified Climate Debt Instrument 
  Not Applicable.   
2.1 The Issuer must establish a document and 
maintain a decision-making process which it uses 
to determine the eligibility of the Nominated 
Projects & Assets. The decision-making process 
includes, without limitation: 
A, B, 
Credit 
Committ
ee 
decision 
 DBK’s Green Bond Framework sets forth the decision-making process for the selection of nominated 
projects. DBK issues other bonds, however the environmental objectives associated with the bond 
seeking certification have been clearly defined in DBK’s internal decision-making documents and are 
limited to the projects that comply with the applicable Technical Criteria of the Climate Bond 
Standard. 
Compliant with the requirement 
2.1.1 A statement on the environmental or 
climate-related objectives of the Bond; 
A, B, 
C.1.1.,  
C.1.4., 
C.2.1., 
C.2
.5 
 DBK has included a statement of the environmental objectives of its  green bond issuances in the 
Green Bond Framework specifying Renewable Energy (Wind, Solar) in the Use of Proceeds segment. 
With regard to certified green bond issues the Green Bond Framework stipulates  that nominated 
green projects eligible for financing and/or refinancing with green bonds seeking certification shall 
be determined in accordance with the Sector Criteria of the CBI standard, in compliance with all the 
requirements of the CBS. The environmental objectives of this particular bond seeking certification 
are clarified in the Issuer’s issuance documentation and internal documentation. 
Compliant with the requirement 
2.1.2 How the climate-related objectives of the 
Bond are positioned within the context of the 
Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy 
and/or processes relating to environmental 
sustainability; 
D, E, G, 
H, I, J, K, 
L, M, N, 
O, P, Q, R 
 The environmental objectives of the Bond were verified to be in li ne with the Sustainable 
Development Policy. GFC confirmed through document and annual report ing review that DBK is 
committed to sustainable development and responsible investment, paying significant attention to 
the impact of its activities on Kazakhstan's economy, society, and the environment, as well as 
balancing the interests of its stakeholders. The Bank's review and appraisal of investment projects 
mandatorily consider their compliance with environmental standards. I n January, 2023, the Bank 
adopted Criteria for assessing investment project applicants for compli ance with environmental, 
social and corporate governance (ESG) principles that were developed i n accordance with its 
Memorandum on Credit Policy, the Bank’s Development Strategy for 2014 –2023, Sustainable 
Development Policy, the Bank's Corporate Governance Code and other i nternal regulations taking 
into account the requirements of the UN Global Compact, the UN  Principles for Responsible 
Investment, Sustainable Development Reporting Standards Global Reporting Ini tiative, as well as 
UN Sustainable Development Goals. DBK’s draft Development Strategy for 2024 –2033 to be 
officially adopted shortly by end of 2023, states among 3 of its main strategic goals the 
implementation of ESG principles in the Bank's activities with t he objective of reducing the carbon 
footprint in the Bank’s loan portfolio, and with an ESG rating indicated as a strategic KPI for the 
Bank. The Bank's loan portfolio so far consists of 8 projects in the renewable energy sector and 
energy efficiency, including the 100 MW Astana EXPO-2017 Wind Power Plant; 100 MW Solar Power 
Compliant with the requirement 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
9  
Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verification 
activity Findings Conclusion on Compliance with Requirement 
Plant in Kapshagay district of Almaty region, etc. 
On March 29, 2023, the Bank had its debut issue of green bonds at the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange 
(KASE) in the amount of 10 billion tenge (21,5K US). On April 4, 2023, DBK approved a Roadmap for 
the implementation of ESG in its activities to demonstrate its commitment to ESG principles both in 
internal processes and in project financing. The Bank annually publ ishes non-financial reports in 
accordance with the international standard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
2.1.3 The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the 
Bond; 
A, B  DBK has provided a statement of the environmental objectives of the  issuance in the Green Bond 
Framework for the financing and support of Renewable Energy. This is further clarified in paragraphs 
of the Green Bond Framework referring to the CBI standard and Bond prospectus. 
Compliant with the requirement 
2.1.4 A process to determine whether the 
Nominated Projects & Assets meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in the 
Sustainability Bond Framework. 
A  DBK has set out in its Green Bond Framework the requirements under which  Nominated Projects 
may be qualified for inclusion including compliance with Climate Bonds Standard Sector Criteria.  
Compliant with the requirement 
2.2 The Issuer should include under Clause 2.1 
further aspects of the decision-making process, 
including: 
A, C.1.1.,  
C.1.4., 
C.2.1., 
C.2.5 
 DBK’s Green Bond Framework states that the process of green project selection and evaluation is 
carried out in accordance with the Bank’s internal regulations on review, financing, monitoring and 
implementation of investment projects, its GBF and other internal acts. The Bank's responsible 
structural units submit to the Credit Committee materials on the compliance or non-compliance of 
an investment project with green project categories and criteria, includ ing cases of bonds seeking 
certification. If necessary, the Bank may engage external consultants for t he selection and 
evaluation of green projects. The Credit Committee makes a decision o n the compliance or non-
compliance of the project with green project categories and criteria. 
Compliant with the requirement 
2.2.1 related eligibility criteria, including, if 
applicable, exclusion criteria or any other 
process, applied to identify and manage 
potentially material environmental, social or 
governance risks associated with the Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
A, C.1.1.,  
C.1.4., 
C.2.1., 
C.2.5 
 DBK, in its Green Bond Framework, has set out the conditions under which Projects and Assets may 
be included in the issuance of green bonds. As mentioned above, with regard to certified green 
bond issues the Green Bond Framework stipulates that nominated green projec ts eligible for 
financing and/or refinancing with green bonds seeking certification a re to be determined in 
accordance with the Sector Criteria of the CBI standard. 
For projects that may be eligible for financing from green bond p roceeds, at the stage of 
preliminary analysis the Bank screens projects for compliance with the categories of green projects 
specified in the Use of Proceeds Chapter, as well as for compli ance with the Bank's mission and 
strategic goals, taking into account environmental risks, including as part of the Bank's assessment 
of investment projects for compliance with the principles of env ironmental, social and corporate 
governance (ESG). DBK has assessed the proposed nominated project against the requirements 
under clause 2.1.1 and the relevant sector criteria for compliance with the Climate Bonds Standard. 
This includes the conclusions of an SPO regarding the nomin ated project provided by GFC 
previously. 
Compliant with the requirement 
2.2.2 any green standards or certifications 
referenced in the selection of Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
  N/A   
3.1 The systems, policies and processes to be 
used for management of the Net Proceeds shall 
be documented by the Issuer and disclosed to 
the Verifier, and must include arrangements for 
the following activities: 
A, 
E 
 DBK has set out the commitments for internal tracking of proceeds in Chapter 6 (Management of 
Proceeds) of its Green Bond Framework. DBK states: 
“Allocation of Green Bond proceeds is accounted for through a special off-system sub-account 
"Green Bonds" (sub-account in Excel) for separate accounting and contro l of the use of proceeds 
from Green Bonds. The Bank has identified a structural unit responsible for  organizing, ensuring, 
and implementing an effective Green Bond management process to account for  the sub-account 
and a structural unit accountable for attracting and developing customer relationships and liaising 
with financial institutions, as well as to maintain a Registry of green projects (hereinafter referred 
to as registry) that keeps track of projects financed and / or refinanced with green bond proceeds. 
Compliant with the requirement 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
10  
Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verification 
activity Findings Conclusion on Compliance with Requirement 
Reports on the sub-account are intended to inform stakeholders, counterpa rties and the public 
about the intended use of green bond proceeds 
3.1.1. Tracking of proceeds: The Net Proceeds 
of the Bond can be credited to a sub-account, 
moved to a sub-portfolio, or otherwise tracked 
by the Issuer in an appropriate manner and 
documented. 
A, 
E 
 As per the Green Bond Framework, DBK uses internal financial reporting system s to track and 
monitor the earmarking and disbursement of proceeds to the nominated projects. GFC confirmed 
with DBK that this system is in place having examined DBK’s working spreadsheets on the tracking 
of sustainable bond issues and allocation to green projects (excel file).  For instance, this tracking 
via “Special off-system sub-account for allocation accounting “Green Bonds”” is in place with 
regard to the Bank’s debut green bonds issued at the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange in March, 2023 
Compliant with the requirement 
3.1.2 Managing unallocated proceeds: The 
balance of unallocated Net Proceeds can be 
managed as per Clause 7.3 (the following 
requirements: 
While the debt instrument remains outstanding, 
the balance of the tracked Net Proceeds must be 
reduced by amounts allocated to Nominated 
projects and assets. Pending such allocations to 
Nominated projects and assets, the balance of 
unallocated Net Proceeds must be: 
i. Held in temporary investment instruments 
that are cash, money-market instruments 
or other liquid, short-term cash equivalent 
instruments within a Treasury function; 
and/or  
ii. Held in temporary investment instruments 
that do not relate to greenhouse gas 
intensive projects or any projects which are 
inconsistent with the delivery of a low 
carbon and climate resilient economy; 
and/or  
iii. Applied to temporarily reduce the 
indebtedness of a revolving nature before 
being redrawn for investments in or 
disbursements to Nominated projects and 
assets.) 
A  As per the Green Bond Framework, the structural unit responsible for organ izing, ensuring, and 
implementing an efficient Green Bond cash management process monitors the  sub-account 
balance quarterly to identify deviations in the total amount of  Green Projects and Green Bond 
proceeds. If, for any reason, the total amount of green projects financed in the sub-account is less 
than the total amount of outstanding green bonds, the Bank will manage the unallocated amount 
in accordance with the Bank's Investment Portfolio Management Policy until the amount of green 
projects financed and / or refinanced equals the green bond amount. 
Compliant with the requirement 
3.1.3 Earmarking funds to Nominated Projects & 
Assets: An earmarking process can be used to 
manage and account for funding to the 
Nominated Projects & Assets and enables 
estimation of the share of the Net Proceeds 
being used for financing and refinancing. 
A, 
B 
 As per Chapter 6 (Management of Proceeds) of the Green Bond Framework, D BK has committed 
to earmark 100% Green Bond proceeds raised to green projects included in  the green projects 
register. Green projects included in the register are to be monito red for compliance or non-
compliance with the green project criteria and categories, at least once a year. A non-green project 
is removed from the register and funding for such a project from green b ond proceeds is 
terminated. If possible, the excluded project is replaced by another green project. 
As per prospectus DBK has committed to earmark 100% proceeds raised from Green Bond seeking 
certification to the loan to finance the nominated wind and solar power projects. 
Compliant with the requirement 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
11  
Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verification 
activity Findings Conclusion on Compliance with Requirement 
3.1.4. Where the prospectus requires the 
proceeds to be ring-fenced, they must be 
credited to designated bank accounts that can 
only fund the specified Nominated projects and 
assets. The Issuer must track and monitor all 
payments from the designated bank accounts 
  N/A  
4.1 The Issuer must prepare a Green Bond 
Framework and make it publicly available prior 
to Issuance or at the time of Issuance. The Green 
Bond Framework shall include, without 
limitation: 
A  DBK has provided a Green Bond Framework for the issuance of Green   Bonds , which is available 
on its website. 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.1.1 Confirmation that the Bonds issued 
under the Green Bond Framework are 
aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard. 
This may include statements of alignment 
with other applicable standards, such as 
the 
EU Green Bond Standard, the ASEAN Green 
Bond Standard, Chinese domestic regulations, 
Japanese Green Bond Guidelines, etc.; 
A  As per the Green Bond Framework, in the case of raising funds throug h green bonds seeking 
certification under the Climate Bonds Standard, the Bank shall follow the requirements of the CBI 
Standard in relation to use-of-proceeds instruments in addition to compliance with those provided 
for in the Green Bond Framework in relation to each of the four core  elements of the ICMA GBP 
and GLP (LMA/ALSTA/APLMA). 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.1.2. A summary of the expected use of 
proceeds, 
as defined under Clause 1.1, 
and the expected contribution of the 
relevant sectors or sub-sectors to the 
rapid transition required to achieve the 
goals of the Paris Climate Agreement.
 
A, 
B 
 DBK has set out a summary of potential use of proceeds in Chapter 4 (Use of Proceeds) of the Green 
Bond Framework. This includes Energy generation from renewable sources: waste, biomass, wind, 
solar, hydro (including generation, transmission, equipment and produc ts). In the case of the use 
of proceeds from the particular green bond issue seeking certification the Sector Criteria of the CBI 
standard for the Wind and Solar Power sector are applied. The wind and solar power projects in 
question are identified in the bond prospectus with the correspondi ng climate mitigation impact 
indicators identified  
Compliant with the requirement 
4.1.3. A description of the decision-making  
process
, as defined under Clause 2.1, 
with particular reference to the 
requirements in Clause 2.1.2.
 
A, 
C.1.1.,  
C.1.4., 
C.2.1., 
C.2
.5 
 As per the Chapter 5 (Selection of Eligible Projects and Assets) of the Green Bond Framework, DBK 
has set out the process for Selection of Eligible Projects, including bond issues seeking certification 
under CBS. The relevant decision-making process on nominated projec t selection (The wind and 
solar power projects in question) is documented by the Bank 
 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.1.4. A description of the Issuer’s processes 
for managing the proceeds  
A  As per the Chapter 6 (Management of Proceeds) of the Green Bond Framew ork, DBK has set out 
the process for the management of proceeds, including issues seeking certification under CBS 
Compliant with the requirement 
 4.1.5. A description of the Issuer’s processes 
for reporting and external review or 
verification 
A, 
E 
 The proceeds of the Bond are to be fully and immediately allo cated to finance the loans for the 
nominated projects through a special off-system sub-account "Green Bonds" (sub-account in Excel) 
for separate accounting and control of the use of proceeds from Green Bonds, including certified 
Bonds. The Bank has identified a structural unit responsible for organiz ing, ensuring, and 
implementing an effective Green Bond management process to account for the sub-account and a 
structural unit accountable for attracting and developing customer  relationships and liaising with 
financial institutions, as well as to maintain a Registry of green projects that keeps track of projects 
financed with green bond proceeds. Reports on the sub-account are in tended to inform 
stakeholders, counterparties and the public about the intended use of certified green bond 
proceeds. The Bank ensures that the green bond management process is evalu ated by an 
independent external consultant 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.2. The Green Bond Framework should also 
include, without limitation: 
A  DBK has confirmed to GFC with regard to the Reporting chapter of the Green Bond Framework that 
the requirements of the Climate Bond Standard reporting will be undert aken to maintain 
Compliant with the requirement 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
12  
Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verification 
activity Findings Conclusion on Compliance with Requirement 
certification if required. 
4.2.1. Information on the methodology and 
assumptions to be used for confirming that the 
characteristics or performance of the 
Nominated projects and assets conform to the 
relevant Sector Criteria, where required, and 
any other additional impact metrics that the 
Issuer will define. 
A, 
B 
 DBK has identified the nominated projects as per Appendix II of  this Assurance report, with 
reference to CBI Sector Eligibility Criteria, and as detailed in P rospectus. The GBF includes a 
reference to CBI Sector Eligibility Criteria as a basis for project assessment with regard to potential 
certified green bonds, indicating GHG reduction and RES capacities installed as impact metrics for 
RES projects  
Compliant with the requirement 
4.2.2. A summary of the approach to the 
management of unallocated Net Proceeds  
in accordance with Clause 3.1.2; 
A  The proposed issuance is for 100% financing for bank loans for the nominated wind and solar power 
projects 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.2.3. The intended approach to providing 
Update Reports to reaffirm conformance with 
the Green Bond Framework while the  Bond 
remains outstanding; 
A  DBK has set out required on green bond disclosures in its Green Bond Framework. The Bank intends 
to provide and keep publicly available annual updated reports on  issued Green Bonds, including 
certified bonds, from the date of issue or attraction until full repayment and in case of any 
significant changes. These reports will be published on the official website of the Bank: 
https://www.kdb.kz/kz/  and may include but not limited to the following reports: 
1. On the allocation of Green Bond proceeds: 
- the net proceeds received from each Green Bond; 
- the amount of proceeds allocated to each Green Project; 
- balance of unallocated proceeds at the end of the reporting period. 
2. On the environmental impact of each project:  
- progress and status of project implementation; 
- the actual effect, quantitative and qualitative, but not lim ited to, e.g., volume of electricity 
generated; reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, etc.; 
- deviation from projected quantitative and qualitative environmental impacts. 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.2.4. The list of proposed Nominated Projects 
& Assets associated with the Bond and the 
investment areas into which the Nominated 
Projects & Assets fall. Where there are limits 
on the amount of detail that can be made 
available about specific Nominated Projects & 
Assets, information shall be presented on the 
investment areas which the Nominated 
Projects & Assets fall into and the Issuer shall 
provide an explanation of why detail on 
Nominated Projects & Assets is limited; 
A, 
B 
 The Green Bond Framework, made publicly available, discloses the eligi ble categories for the 
nominated projects (including wind and solar). The nominated pro jects identified for the green 
bond seeking certification shall be disclosed in the Bond Prospectus and the pre-issuance Assurance 
report. GFC confirmed with DBK that the post-issuance reporting will show the amount of certified 
bond proceeds allocated to the nominated green projects, as well  as climate mitigation impact 
indicators (GHG emissions avoided) 
 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.2.5. Where a proportion of the Net 
Proceeds are used for refinancing, an 
estimate of the share of the Net Proceeds 
used for financing and refinancing, and the 
relevant Nominated Projects & Assets or 
investment areas which may be refinanced. 
This may also include the expected look- back 
period for refinanced Nominated Projects & 
Assets. 
B  N/A. Proceeds from the Bond seeking certification will not be used for re-financing Compliant with the requirement 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
13  
 
 
 
 
Table 3. 
NOMINATED PROJECTS AND ASSETS3 
 
No. Projects and Assets Project description Location Verified Exposure 
USD 
Project value (est.) 
1 Bank loan to finance the Construction of a Wind Power 
Plant Jasil Jel Energy with a capacity of 15 MW  
 
 
Construction of a Wind Power Plant Jasil Jel Energy with a capacity of 15 
MW in Akmola region, Kazakhstan. The project in question is part of a larger 
mid-term wind power project titled “Modernization of a 220.95 MW wind 
farm in the Akmola region” consisting of 5 different wind power plants 
(Borey wind farm 100 MW, EnergoTrust wind farm 50 MW, Sofievskaya 
Arshaly district, Akmola 
region, Kazakhstan.  
 
CONFIDENTIAL 
(expected loan 
amount, Credit 
Committee decision is 
pending) 
USD 15 mln for 15 MW Wind 
farm.  
USD 311 mln for the total 221 
MW WWP project (mid-term)  
 
3 The Issuer intends to allocate Green Bond proceeds to any of the Nominated assets and projects indicated herein depending on which one requires disbursement sooner. 
Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verification 
activity Findings Conclusion on Compliance with Requirement 
4.3. Issuers are encouraged to disclose as much 
information as possible with respect to 
Nominated projects and assets. However, in 
many cases it is not possible for the Issuer to 
disclose detailed information about specific 
projects and assets prior to the issuance of the 
Bond. This limitation may be due to 
confidentiality arrangements with owners of 
projects and assets, the dynamic nature of the 
project portfolio, competitive considerations, 
or other legal provisions which limit the 
disclosure of detailed information 
A, 
B 
 Information with respect to Nominated projects and assets shall be disc losed in the Prospectus. 
DBK discloses the engagement of GFC for the verification of the bond issuance seeking certification, 
and shall share the GFC Pre-Issuance Assurance Statement to prospective and current investors on 
their website and through sustainability reporting. 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.4. The Issuer shall include in the Disclosure 
Documentation: 
A  The proposed reporting to investors and stakeholders as set out in the Green  Bond Framework will 
be disclosed to current and prospective investors. 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.4.1. The investment areas into which the 
Nominated Projects & Assets fall; 
A  Covered by the Green Bond Framework’s reporting chapter Compliant with the requirement 
4.4.2. The intended types of temporary 
investment Bonds for the management of 
unallocated Net Proceeds in accordance with 
Clause 3.1.2; 
A  Covered by the Green Bond Framework’s management of proceeds chapter Compliant with the requirement 
4.4.3. The Verifier engaged by the Issuer for 
the mandatory verification engagements; 
A  Identification of GFC as verifier for the verification engagements is covered in the External review 
section of the Green Bond Framework 
Compliant with the requirement 
4.4.4. The intended approach to providing 
Update Reports to reaffirm conformance with 
the Green Bond Framework while the Bond 
remains outstanding, including the location of 
the published documents; 
A  Covered by the Green Bond Framework’s reporting chapter Compliant with the requirement 
4.2.5 The CBI Disclaimer provided in the 
Certification Agreement  
B  DBK has confirmed its intention to include the CBI disclaimer in the Bond Prospectus and Pre-
issuance Assurance report. 
Compliant with the requirement 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
14  
wind farm 40 MW, Arkalykskaya wind farm 15 MW and Jasil Jel Energy wind 
farm 15 MW) 
 
 
2 Bank loan to finance the Construction and commissioning 
of a Wind power development project with a total installed 
capacity of about 153 MW (Khromtau Wind Power Plant)  
Construction and commissioning of a Wind power development project with 
a total installed capacity of about 153 MW (Khromtau Wind Power Plant) 
Near the city of 
Khromtau, Aktobe 
region, Kazakhstan 
CONFIDENTIAL (loan 
amount as per Credit 
Committee approval) 
USD 178 mln 
3 Project #3. Bank loan to finance the Construction of a 
second stage Solar power station Balkhash 50 MW near 
town Balkhash, Karaganda region (2nd stage of an 
aggregate 100 MW Balkhash SPP)  
Construction and commissioning of the stage 2 solar power station Balkhash 
50 MW near town Balkhash, Karaganda region (2nd stage of an aggregate 
100 MW Balkhash SPP), consisting of photovoltaic modules and inverters  
Near town Balkhash, 
Karaganda region, 
Kazakhstan 
CONFIDENTIAL (No 
Credit Committee 
decision yet, 
borrower assessment 
ongoing) 
 
USD 37,885,600 
 TOTAL   Approx. USD 
187,309,000  
 
 
 
1.1. Checklist Question 
Ref to 
reviewed 
doc No. 
Verificatio
n activity Findings 
Conclusion on Compliance with 
Requirement 
 1.1. Nominated projects and assets must meet the eligibility 
requirements provided in the relevant Sector Criteria 
documents applicable at the time of certification. 
C.1.1., 
C.1.2., 
C.1.3., 
C.1.4., 
C.2.1., 
C.2.2., 
C.2.3., 
C.2.4., 
C.2.5.  
C.3.2., 
  C.3.3 
Document 
review, 
Interview 
Project #1. Bank loan to finance the Construction of a Wind Power Plant Jasil Jel Energy with a capacity 
of 15 MW.  
The project in question is part of a larger mid-term wind power project titled “Modernization of a 
220.95 MW wind farm in the Akmola region” consisting of 5 different wind power plants (Borey wind 
farm 100 MW, EnergoTrust wind farm 50 MW, Sofievskaya wind farm 40 MW, Arkalykskaya wind farm 
15 MW and Jasil Jel Energy wind farm 15 MW) with an estimated potential effect of 483K tonnes of 
GHG annual emissions avoided. 
The Jasil Jel 15 MW project includes several wind turbines of the WD172-5000 type, on-site cable 
power collection lines, on-site fiber optic lines, transformer substations, technological driveways to 
each wind power installation. 
According to the Environmental Code of Kazakhstan, industrial installations for the production of 
electrical energy, including renewable energy sources, with a capacity of up to 50 megawatts (MW) are 
not subject to mandatory complex environmental impact assessment, with the environmental 
assessment to be carried out according to a simplified procedure. As per the Conclusion of the state 
examination on the project, the facilities of the “Wind power station of Jasil Jel Energy LLP to be 
constructed in the Arshaly district of the Akmola region (WPP-7 and WPP-8)” with a total installed 
capacity of 15 MW fall under category III facilities and are allowed for installment. During the 
construction period, imported water will be used as a source of water supply, and water protection 
measures will be implemented during operation. There will be no impact on the species composition, 
number of fauna, gene pools, habitat, breeding conditions, migration routes and places of 
concentration of animals during construction, installation and operation of the facility in question. 
During the implementation of the project and after its completion, global changes in the vegetation 
cover of the area at the construction site are not expected. 
The environmental effect of Project #1 is annual prevented greenhouse gas emissions in the amount of 
32 976 tCO2 per year. 
The main environmental benefit will be in reducing Kazakhstan’s contribution to climate change and air 
pollution. Annual output for the 15 MW Jasil Jel WPP project is estimated to range from 48 000 to 53 
000 MWh /year. Given the more conservative forecast electricity generation of 48 000 MWh /year and 
based on the national Combined Margin Grid Emission Factor of 698 g CO2/kWh, or 0,698 tCO2/ MWh 
(for Kazakhstan4), the annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions avoided can be expected to be 48 000 
Compliant with the requirement 
 
4 According to the IFI Dataset of Default Grid Factors t able, version 3.2 (used by IFIs as a basis for accou nting for greenhouse gas emissions), Combined Margin G rid Emission Factor for Kazakhstan in relation to wind and solar energy projects is set at 0,698 tCO2/ MWh  
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
15  
MWh x 0,698 tCO2/MWh = 33 504 tCO2. 
However, according to IPCC, average life-cycle CO2 equivalent emissions for onshore wind power is 
0,011t CO2 equivalent/MWh, therefore, with this correction in mind, the annual GHG emissions 
avoided are expected to be 48 000 MWh x (0,698- 0,011tCO2)/MWh =  32 976 tCO2. 
 
Meanwhile, for the context, as per ESIAs and environmental assessments available on the other 4 
related projects within the larger (aggregate) mid-term 221 MW project in Akmola region, 3 projects 
(50MW Energo Trust WPP, 15 MW Arkalyk WPP and 40 MW Sofiyevskaya WPP) were categorized as 
Category 3 as per Environmental Code, and 1 project was categorized in respective ESIA as “B” for 
environmental and social aspects (WPP Borey 100MW), with no critical environmental and social issues 
identified and impacts judged to be site specific with a potential to be brought to acceptable level 
through the implementation of mitigation measures established and approved in ESAP. Construction 
for the Borey (100 MW) and Energo Trust (50 MW) projects were completed in December 2022. Also a 
separate ESIA commissioned by EBRD and conducted for combined 4 projects (100 MW Borey WPP, 50 
MW Energo Trust WPP, as well as two projects under development, 40 MW Sofievskaya WPP and 15 
MW Arkalyk WPP) in Nov 2023 determined that the project is commensurate with a Category B project 
although the overhead power line, with voltage of 110 kV and length >40 km is likely to fall under 
Category A. Consideration has also been given to all relevant direct and indirect E&S impacts, the 
company’s current operations and management capacity and their proposed plans to implement the 
project including their procedures and practices and also during the full project cycle stages. The 
recommendations are incorporated into a corporate level Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) 
to ensure compliance with the relevant standards. 
Project #2. Bank loan to finance the Construction and commissioning of a Wind power development 
project with a total installed capacity of about 153 MW (Khromtau Wind Power Plant) 
As per Feasibility Study, a 3000 ha site for a 100 or 150MW wind power plant is selected 9 km northeast 
of Khromtau town in Don Rural Area, Khromtau District, Aktobe Region. At the stage of this report 
preparation, the 34 Goldwind GW155-4.5 and 25 Vestas V162-6.0 turbines were considered.  
Four meter-wide internal roads will connect the turbines. The 35kV alternate current cables will be laid 
2m deep in the ground between the turbines to connect them to the internal substation from where a 
110kV overhead line will run 21km to the area set for a planned 220kV substation.  
 
Based on the outcomes of the project risk assessment using GFC’s Environmental and Social Risk 
Assessment Generic Checklist for Eligible Projects Financed under the Issue of Sustainability 
Bonds/Loans, Project # 2 in question was assigned a MEDIUM (CATEGORY B) E&S risk rating. 
As per preliminary ESIA, the project was categorized as “B” for environmental and social aspects and 
the assessment has not identified any issues that would warrant a review of this categorization. No 
critical environmental and social 
issues have been identified and impacts are judged to be site specific with a potential to be brought to 
acceptable by the stakeholders level and in compliance with the Bank’s Performance Requirements 
with the mitigation measures.  
The environmental effect of Project #2 is annual prevented greenhouse gas emissions in the amount of 
366,501 tCO2 per year. 
The P905 factor was used to correlate the annual output. Annual output is expected to be 592 757MWh 
x 0.9 = 533 481 MWh.  
Given the forecast electricity generation by the Khromtau WPP of 533 481 MWh /year and based on 
the national Combined Margin Grid Emission Factor of 698 g CO2/kWh, or 0,698 tCO2/ MWh (for 
Kazakhstan6), the annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions avoided can be expected to be 533 481 MWh 
x 0,698 tCO2/MWh = 372 370 tCO2. 
Since, according to IPCC, average life-cycle CO2 equivalent emissions for onshore wind power is 0,011t CO2 
 
5 So called exceedance probability P90, which denotes the level of annual wind-driven electricity generation  that is forecasted to be exceeded 90% of the year   
6 According to the IFI Dataset of Default Grid Factors t able, version 3.2 (used by IFIs as a basis for accou nting for greenhouse gas emissions), Combined Margin G rid Emission Factor for Kazakhstan in relation to wind and solar energy projects is set at 0,698 tCO2/ MWh  
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
16  
equivalent/MWh, the annual GHG emissions avoided are expected to be 533 481 MWh x (0,698- 
0,011tCO2)/MWh =  366 501 tCO2. 
 
Note: According to an SPO issued to the borrower’s parent company in June, 2022, for this project and 
related green loan, which referred to the national GHG emission factor for grid electricity generation 
(EFgrid) equal to 844gCO2/kWh7, the annual reduction was estimated at 433 856 tCO2. However, for 
the purposes of this Assurance Report, GFC employs a more conservative approach with reference to 
the IFI Dataset of Default Grid Factors table.  
 
When burning 1t of coal in Kazakhstan grid electricity generation network, 13-25kg of SO2 and 7-11kg 
of NOx are thought to be released8 (the lower values of 13 and 7kg are accepted for this calculation). 
The total annual reduction of SO2 and NOx emission is expected to be 948.4t and 509.8t respectively. 
 
Project #3. Bank loan to finance the Construction of a stage 2 solar power station Balkhash 50 MW 
near town Balkhash, Karaganda region (2nd stage of an aggregate 100 MW Balkhash SPP) 
The site of the 100 MW SPP is located 8 km north from the town of Balkhash and consists of 
photovoltaic modules and inverters. The area of SPP construction land plot is 400.0 hectares. The solar 
panel site occupies the main part of the site and is divided into 16 solar panel fields with transformers. 
Service and support area buildings are located in the northern part of the site and consist of service 
premises. The 220/35 kV substation site is also located in the northern part of the SPP site.   
 
As per ESIA (as of 2020), during the construction period, the impact is assessed as temporary and does not 
cause irreversible natural processes and phenomena. Proposed design solutions, including organizational 
and technical approaches to operation and environmental protection measures, ensure high industrial 
and environmental safety of the planned reconstruction, rendering significant environmental disturbances 
unlikely. For possible emergency situations, the facility has an action plan of mitigatory measures. The 
project's environmental assessment complies with the Environmental Code of Kazakhstan. 
 
The environmental effect of Project #3 is annual prevented greenhouse gas emissions in the amount of 
53 165 tCO2 per year. 
Given the forecast electricity generation by the Balkhash 50 MW SPP of 81 792 MWh /year and based on 
the national Combined Margin Grid Emission Factor of 698 g CO2/kWh, or 0,698 tCO2/ MWh (for 
Kazakhstan), the annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions avoided can be expected to be 81 792 MWh x 
0,698 tCO2/MWh = 57 090 tCO2. 
Since, according to IPCC, average life-cycle CO2 equivalent emissions for solar power utilities is 0,048t CO2 
equivalent/MWh, the annual GHG emissions avoided are expected to be 81 792 MWh x (0,698- 
0,048tCO2)/MWh =  53 165 tCO2. 
 
 
Combined environmental effect of all projects to be financed is 452 642 tCO2 in annual avoided 
emissions. 
 
GFC notes that the Green Bond Framework has been prepared and structured to include Renewable energy 
(Wind), referring to CBS Sector Eligibility Criteria as selection criteria for cases seeking CBI certification. 
The Prospectus for the green bond seeking certification sets forth the use of proceeds and provides the 
description of the wind power projects in question.  
The issuer has described the decision-making process for the selection of nominated projects in the Green 
Bond Framework. 
DBK issues other green bonds, however the environmental objectives associated with the bond seeking 
 
7 Green Economy Transition Handbook, EBRD, 2018 page 51  based on a study carried out by Lahmayer Internation al in 2012, which is still subject to approval. Alte rnatively, the baseline level of coal in terms of gree nhouse gas emissions could be set equal to the carbo n dioxide equivalent emission factor of 985 
g/kWh (Order of the Minister of Energy of the Republic  of Kazakhstan dated June 28, 2017 № 222). 
8 https://forbes.kz/process/probing/pyil_vekov  
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
17  
certification have been clearly defined by the Issuer in the Prospectus and limited to the loan 
transactions financing the wind power projects that comply with the applicable Technical Criteria of the 
Climate Bond Standard. 
 
 WIND SECTOR ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA of the Climate Bonds 
Standard  
 Version 1.2) 
  
 Wind energy assets relate to:  
 • The establishment, acquisition, expansion, and/ or ongoing 
management of a specified onshore wind energy facility.  
 • The establishment, acquisition, expansion and/ or ongoing 
management of related inputs and infrastructure to support 
these facilities.  
 These assets are eligible for inclusion in a Certified Climate 
Bond if they meet:  
.  
. Onshore wind energy generation facilities are Automatically 
eligible 
C.1.1., 
C.1.2., 
C.1.3., 
C.1.4., 
C.2.1., 
C.2.2., 
C.2.3., 
C.2.4., 
C.2.5.  
 GFC verified the procedure used by DBK to identify, check, review and include loans on the basis of their 
use of proceeds.  
 
GFC confirmed the procedure for selecting the eligible assets: 
• Bank loan to finance the Construction of a Wind Power Plant Jasil Jel Energy with a capacity of 15 
MW  
• Bank loan to finance the Construction and commissioning of a Wind power development project 
with a total installed capacity of about 153 MW (Khromtau Wind Power Plant) 
 
GFC confirmed that based on the verification procedures undertaken, the use of proceeds is compliant 
with the CBI Wind Sector Criteria, and the onshore wind energy generation facilities considered are 
Automatically eligible. 
1.12. SOLAR SECTOR ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA of the Climate Bonds 
Standard & Certification Scheme (April 2023, Rev 2.3) 
. Solar energy assets relate to:  
• Onshore solar electricity generation facilities 
• Wholly dedicated transmission infrastructure, grid 
connections and other supporting infrastructure for 
onshore solar electricity generation facilities including 
inverters, transformers, energy storage systems and 
control systems. 
• etc.  
.  
. Onshore solar electricity generation facilities are eligible if 
they meet the following criterion: 
.  
. A minimum of 85% of electricity is generated from solar 
energy resources 
C.3.2., 
     C.3.3 
 GFC verified the procedure used by DBK to identify, check, review and include loans on the basis of their 
use of proceeds.  
 
GFC confirmed the procedure for selecting the eligible assets: 
• Bank loan to finance the Construction of a stage 2 solar power station Balkhash 50 MW near town 
Balkhash, Karaganda region (2nd stage of an aggregate 100 MW Balkhash SPP) 
 
GFC confirmed that based on the verification procedures undertaken, the use of proceeds is compliant 
with the CBI Solar Sector Criteria, and Onshore solar electricity generation facilities, as well as 
supporting infrastructure such as inverters and transformers, considered are eligible, since they meet 
the following requirement: A minimum of 85% of electricity is generated from solar energy resources. 
The Balkhash 50 MW SPP consists of photovoltaic modules and inverters and 100% of electricity is to be 
generated from solar energy resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
18  
Appendix II. List of Documents Reviewed 
 
Review of Documentation 
Documents provided by DBK that relate to the Green Bond are listed below. These have been used as 
direct sources of evidence for the verification conclusions, and are also further checked, as considered 
appropriate, through interviews with key personnel. 
A. Green Bond Framework  
B. Draft Prospectus on the Bond Issue 
C. Project Information: 
C.1.1. Questionnaire filled in on Project #1 (15 MW WPP Jasil Jel Energy in Akmola Region) 
C.1.2. Conclusion of the government (state) environmental assessment as of  07.06.2023 
on project “Construction of WPP Jasil Jel Energy in Arshaly district, Akmola Region” (for 
wind farm equipment, inc. wind generator, with a total capacity of 10 MW) 
C.1.3. Conclusion of the government (state) environmental assessment as of  07.06.2023 
on project “Construction of WPP Jasil Jel Energy in Arshaly district, Akmola Region” (for 
wind farm equipment, inc. wind generator, with a total capacity of 5 MW) 
C.1.4. Credit Committee decision on inclusion of the project # 1 to the pool of green 
projects and recommendation for Credit Committee for nomination 
С.1.5. Environmental assessments (including ESIA on other related projects within the 
larger 221 MW project (Conclusion of the government (state) environmental assessment 
on project “Construction of 50 MW WPP Energo Trust”, 15 MW Arkalyk WPP and 40 MW 
Sofiyevskaya WPP, ESIA for Borey 100 MW WPP) 
C.2.1. Questionnaire filled in on Project #2 (153 MW WPP Khromtau, Aktobe Region) 
C.2.2. Preliminary ESIA and Feasibility study for project: «Wind Farm Construction (WFP)”, 
including 154 WPP in Khromtau, date of approval 17.05.2021 
C.2.3. SPO issued earlier by GFC on 13 June, 2022, re: the compliance of a green loan to be 
obtained by the parent company of DBK’s borrower re: the Khromtau WPP project), which 
includes project assessment for compliance with Kazakhstan’s Green Taxonomy 
C.2.4. Positive conclusion of an independent examination No. KAREXP-0023/23 dated 
September 18, 2023 for the project: Construction of a wind power plant (WPP) Khromtau. 
Service and production complex (SPC) of wind farms, technological passages, installation 
sites” 
C.2.5. Credit Committee decision on inclusion of the project # 2 to the pool of green 
projects and recommendation for Credit Committee for nomination 
C.3.1. Questionnaire filled in on Project #3  
C.3.2. ESIA for Balkhash SPP 100MW (stage 1 (50MW) and 2 (50MW) 
C.3.3. Conclusion on comprehensive non-departmental examination for Balkhash SPP 
100MW project as of 12.10.2020. 
D. DBK’s Criteria for assessing investment project applicants for compliance with 
environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) principles as approved by the 
Credit Committee of Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC in January 2023 
E. Working spreadsheets on the tracking of DBK’s sustainable bond issues and allocation to 
green projects (excel file) 
F. Bank’s Development Strategy for 2014–2023 
G. Development Strategy for 2024–2033 
H. Sustainable Development Policy 
I. Memorandum on Credit Policy 
J. Corporate Governance Code 
K. Annual reports of DBK for 2022 and 2021 
L. Draft Roadmap for the implementation of ESG in its activities 
M. Risk management policy of Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC 
N. Information on the risk management and internal control system 
O. Corporate social responsibility strategy 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
19  
P. Principles of corporate social responsibility of DBK 
Q. Information disclosure rules of DBK 
R. Organizational structure 
 
Background documents related to the Green Bond: 
1. Climate Bond Standard version 4.0, April 2023. 
2. Climate Bonds Initiative Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria (Rev. 1.3 as of 13 April 2023. 
 
Interviews with and Informa琀椀on Collected from Bond issuer stakeholders 
GFC primarily communicated with DBK’s team of Funding and Interna琀椀onal Rela琀椀ons Department to gather 
informa琀椀on about the Bond and collected informa琀椀on from the issuer. 
The following key persons were involved in these communications. 
1. Adina Berikkyzy, Director, Funding and International Relations, DBK 
2. Anna Zagoskina, Funding and Investor Relations, DBK 
3. Malika Rakhymzhanova, Specialist, Funding and International Relations, DBK 
 
Appendix III. Assurance Procedures and Findings  
 
Resolution of issues raised 
The objective of this phase of the verification is to resolv e any outstanding issues, which need be clarified 
prior to GFC’s conclusion on the Bond. No corrective action issues, where DBK m ight have deficient 
processes and procedures that will influence its ability to meet the  requirements of the Climate Bond 
Standard were raised. A clarification issue was raised where information was insufficient or not clear enough 
to determine whether the applicable Climate Bond Standard requirements have been met (see below). No 
material follow-up control issues were raised during verification to h ighlight issues related to the Bond 
issuer’s implementation of the requirements of the Climate Bond Standard that  require review during a 
subsequent verification. 
Corrective action issues raised 
 
 
No. 
Corrective action issue 
raised 
Action taken by Bond 
issuer 
GFC’s assessment of action taken 
by Bond issuer 
1 None raised   
 
Clarification issues raised 
 
 
No. 
Clarification issue raised Action taken by Bond 
issuer 
GFC’s assessment of action taken 
by Bond issuer 
1 Possible lack of internal 
expertise during the 
identification and selection 
of eligible projects and 
related E&S risk assessment. 
Bank adopted Criteria for 
assessing investment 
project applicants for 
compliance with 
environmental, social and 
corporate governance (ESG) 
In its GBF, Bank states 
that, if necessary, the 
Bank may engage 
external consultants for 
the selection and 
evaluation of green 
projects. 
GFC confirmed with 
Client that the Bank 
plans on assigning 
appropriate 
Action sufficient. GFC confirmed with 
Client that the Bank has conducted its 
assessment re: projects to be financed 
against its Criteria for assessing 
investment project applicants for 
compliance with environmental, social 
and corporate governance (ESG) 
principles, that have been carried out 
by dedicated internal staff for E&S risk 
assessment procedures. 
 
Verification report for pre-issuance certification 
Green Bond of Development Bank of Kazakhstan 
 
20  
principles, and is planning 
on implementing in mid-
term the Financial 
Regulator’s (ARDFM) 
Guidance on ESMS. Given 
that the Bank is at the start 
of its journey to fully 
implement ESMS 
procedures, the Bank may 
not have the necessary 
resources to conduct in-
depth Due Diligence and 
follow-up and monitor 
thoroughly the 
implementation of any 
project-related mitigation 
plans. 
responsibilities to 
dedicated internal staff 
for E&S risk assessment 
procedures and follow-
up monitoring 
(Appointment of internal 
ESG officer with primary 
responsibility of E&S risk 
assessment of projects) 
 
Follow-up control issues raised 
 
 
No. 
Follow-up control issue 
raised 
Action taken by Bond 
issuer 
GFC’s assessment of action taken 
by Bond issuer 
1 None Raised   
 
 
Climate Bonds Initiative Disclaimer 
 
The information contained in this document does not constitute investment ad vice in any form or any invitation or 
inducement to engage in investment activity and the Climate Bonds In itiative is not an investment adviser. Any 
reference to a financial organisation or debt instrument or investment product is for information purposes only. Links 
to external websites are for information purposes only. The Climate Bonds Initiative accepts no responsibility for any 
content on any external website. Certification under the Climate Bonds Standard relates exclusively to the conformity 
of one or more designated debt instruments, designated assets and/or designated entities with the applicable Climate 
Bonds Standard at the time of certification. Certification under the Climate Bonds Standard carries no implication (and 
should not be understood as carrying any implication) as to any othe r aspect of any debt instrument or investment 
product or any collection of debt instruments or investment products or any asset or entity or group of assets or entities 
or as to continuing conformity at any time after the time of certification.  Such certification carries no implication (and 
should not be understood as carrying any implication) that any stated target has been or will at any time be met or 
that any particular legal or regulatory requirement has been or w ill be satisfied. The Climate Bonds Initiative is not 
endorsing, recommending or advising on the financial merits or (subject to the previous paragraph) any other aspect 
of any debt instrument or investment product or any collection of debt  instruments or investment products or any 
asset or entity or group of assets or entities and no information within this document should be taken as such, nor 
should any information in this document be relied upon in making an y investment decision. The decision to invest in 
anything is solely yours. The Climate Bonds Initiative accepts no l iability of any kind, for any investment made by an 
individual or organisation, nor for any investment made by third par ties on behalf of an individual or organisation, 
based in whole or in part on any information contained within this, or any other Climate Bonds Initiative document.