A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
 
 
 
Ernst & Young 
200 George Street 
Sydney  NSW  2000 Australia 
GPO Box 2646 Sydney  NSW  2001 
 Tel: +61 2 9248 5555 
Fax: +61 2 9248 5959 
ey.com/au 
 
Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors and Management of  
Abu Dhabi Future Energy Co – PJSC – MASDAR  
Background 
Abu Dhabi Future Energy Co – PJSC – MASDAR (the 
‘Company’) has developed its Green Finance 
Framework to serve as a reference for all green bonds, 
loans and other financial instruments raised to finance 
investments in projects at home and overseas.  
 
This Framework is intended to align with the four core 
pillars of the Green Bond Principles (GBP) and Green 
Loan Principles (GLP), including the recommendation 
for external review: 
1. Use of Proceeds; 
2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection; 
3. Management of Proceeds; and 
4. Reporting. 
 
In addition to alignment with the GBP and GLP, Masdar 
may seek certification in compliance with the 
requirements of the Climate Bonds Initiative (“CBI”) 
Climate Bonds Standard (V4.0) (“CBS”). 
 
Scope 
Ernst & Young (‘EY’) has performed a limited assurance 
engagement in relation to the Company’s Green 
Finance Framework (‘the Framework’) to conclude that 
nothing has come to our attention that the Framework 
does not meet the Criteria presented below. 
 
Subject Matter and Criteria 
Subject Matter Criteria 
The Company’s Green Finance 
Pre-Issuance Certification 
requirements  
Process, across the following 
impact categories:  
• Use of proceeds 
• Process for Evaluation and 
Selection of Projects and 
Assets 
• Management of Proceeds 
• Reporting Prior to Issuance 
 
• Masdar Green Finance 
Framework 
• Climate Bonds’ Standard 
V4.0 
Management Responsibility 
The management of the Company is responsible for the 
preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in 
accordance with the criteria, for determining the 
criteria are suitable, and for maintaining adequate 
records and internal controls that are designed to 
enable preparation of the Subject Matter.  
 
Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility 
EY’s responsibility is to express a limited assurance 
conclusion on the noted subject matter as defined 
above.  
In performing this engagement, we have applied 
International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and  
the independence and other ethical requirements of the 
Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB)  
Code of Ethics (which includes the requirements of the 
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants  
issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for 
Accountants (IESBA). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assurance Conclusion 
Based on our limited assurance procedures described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to 
believe that the following requirements of Abu Dhabi Future Energy Co – PJSC – MASDAR:  
• The Climate Bond Standard Pre-Issuance Certification requirements 
 
has not been appropriately prepared in all material respects in line with the ‘Masdar Green Finance Framework’, and 
in accordance with the Climate Bond Standard’s: 
 
• Climate Bonds Standard V4.0 as detailed on https://www.climatebonds.net/climate-bonds-standard-v4 
 
Level of Assurance 
A limited assurance engagement consists of making 
enquiries and applying analytical, controls testing, 
and other evidence-gathering procedures sufficient 
for us to obtain a meaningful level of assurance as 
the basis for providing a negative form of conclusion. 
The procedures performed depend on the assurance 
practitioner’s judgement including the risk of material 
misstatement of the specific activity data, whether 
due to fraud or error. While we considered the 
effectiveness of Management’s internal controls 
when determining the nature and extent of our 
procedures, these procedures were not designed to 
provide assurance on internal controls. We believe 
that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.  
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Approach 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements  
(AU) 3000 (July 2020) Assurance engagements other 
than audits or reviews of historical financial  
information (“ISAE (AU) 3000 (July 2020)”) as 
promulgated by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) 
and the terms of reference for this engagement as 
agreed with the Company on 20 April 2023. 
 
The procedures we performed were based on our 
professional judgement and included, but were not 
limited to, the following: 
• Reviewing the policies, procedures and systems 
related to the Framework to assess whether 
they were aligned to the requirements detailed 
in the Criteria 
• Interviewing management responsible for the 
Framework to understand key issues related to 
the Company’s relevant policies and procedures 
• Reviewing eligibility of nominated projects for 
inclusion in the Company’s potential nominated 
asset pool against the Criteria 
• Reviewing the basis and integrity for the 
potential value of the debt instrument 
• Seeking management representation on key 
assertions 
 
Limitations 
There are inherent limitations in performing assurance 
– for example, assurance engagements are based on 
selective testing of the information being examined – 
and it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance 
may occur and not be detected. There are additional 
inherent risks associated with assurance over non-
financial information including reporting against 
standards which require information to be assured 
against source data compiled using definitions and 
estimation methods that are developed by the reporting 
entity. Finally, adherence to ISAE (AU) 3000 is 
subjective and will be interpreted differently by 
different stakeholder groups.  
 
Our assurance was limited to the Framework and did not 
include statutory financial statements. Our assurance is 
limited to policies and procedures in place as of 23 June 
2023. 
 
Independence 
We confirm that EY has complied with all professional 
regulations relating to Independence in relation to this 
engagement. EY has stringent policies and procedures 
in place to ensure independence requirements are 
addressed and monitored on a timely basis. 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of Report 
Our responsibility in performing our assurance 
activities is to the Directors and Management of the 
Company and its managed funds. We do not therefore 
accept or assume any responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person or organisation. Any 
reliance any such third party may place on the 
Framework is entirely at its own risk. No statement is 
made as to whether the Criteria are appropriate for any 
third-party purpose. 
 
 
  
 
Ernst & Y oung  
Melbourne, Australia   
23 June 2023 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
 
 
 
 
 
Confidential 
 
Annex A 
 
Proceeds-based Criteria 
The Company’s Green Finance Framework was assured against the following requirements as specified in the Climate Bonds Standard v4.0. 
 
Ref Significant 
Process Certification Checklist Requirements  Testing Procedures and Observations 
1 Use of Proceeds ► Masdar shall document the Nominated Projects & Assets 
which are proposed to be associated with the Green 
Finance Instruments and which have been assessed as 
likely to be Eligible Projects & Assets. Masdar shall 
establish a list of Nominated Projects & Asse ts which is 
required to be maintained during the term of the Green 
Finance Instruments 
 
► The expected Net Proceeds of the Green Finance 
Instruments shall be no greater than Masdar's total 
investment exposure to the proposed Nominated 
Projects & Assets, or the relevant proposition of the total 
Market Value of the proposed Nominated Projects & 
Assets which are owned or funded by Masdar.  
 
► Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to 
other Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, 
Certified Debt Instruments, green bonds, green loans or 
other labelled instruments (such as social bon ds or SDG 
bonds) unless it is demonstrated by Masdar that:  
 
1. Distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & 
Assets are being funded by different Certified 
Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified 
Climate Debt Instruments, green bond, green loans, 
or other labelled instruments, or 
2. The existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified 
Climate Loan or Certified Debt Instrument is being 
refinanced via another Certified Climate Bond, 
Certified Climate Loan or Certified Debt Instrument.  
 
► EY performed a review of the Green Finance Register to confirm all assets listed in Annex B 
currently meet the CBS’ Solar Energy and Wind Energy sector criteria and are eligible. 
► EY reviewed a copy of the Green Finance Register to identify the amounts allocated to the assets . 
This was supplemented with a process interview with management, a review of minutes of 
Sustainability, Strategy and Investment Committee ( SSIC) approval meeting for the nominated 
projects and sought management representation on the value of the debt to be rais ed and the 
projects to be funded by the debt.  
► EY conducted a process interview with management and reviewed the asset pool of prior Masdar 
green bonds to understand whether nominated projects are already nominated to another debt 
instrument, and if so, EY determined whether parts could be distinguished .  
► EY conducted a process interview with Masdar to understand further detail regarding internal 
processes and controls. 
 
 
 
 
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Ref Significant 
Process Certification Checklist Requirements  Testing Procedures and Observations 
2 Process for 
Evaluation and 
Selection of 
Projects & Assets 
► Masdar shall establish, document and maintain a 
decision-making process which it uses to determine the 
eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. The 
decision-making process shall include, without limitation:  
1. A statement on the climate -related objectives of the 
Green Finance Instruments 
2. How the climate-related objectives of the Green 
Finance Instruments are positioned within the 
context of Masdar's overarching objectives, 
strategy, policy and/or processes relating to 
environmental sustainability 
3. Masdar's rationale for issuing the Green Finance 
Instrument 
 
► Further aspects of the decision -making process, 
including: 
 
1. Related eligibility criteria, including, if applicable, 
exclusion criteria or any other processes, applied to 
identify and manage potentially material 
environmental, social, or governance risks 
associated with the Nominated Projects & Assets  
2. Green standards or certifications referenced in the 
selection of Projects & Assets 
3. Masdar shall assess that all proposed Nominated 
Projects & Assets to be associated with the Green 
Finance Instrument meet the documented 
objectives and are likely to conform to the relevant 
eligibility requirements under Part C of the Climate 
Bonds Standard 
 
► EY reviewed the Green Finance Framework and the Green Finance Register to determine whether 
decision making processes with respect to selecting nominated projects and assets were adequate.  
► EY obtained confirmation from management that when each project was presented for 
endorsement by the SSIC no objections were received. These recommendations were validated.  
► EY performed a review to determine that all  nominated projects align with the EU taxonomy and 
align with CBS’ Solar Energy and Wind Energy sector criteria and are eligible 
3 Management of 
Proceeds 
► The systems, policies, and processes to be used for 
management of the Net Proceeds shall be documented 
by Masdar, and shall include arrangements for the 
following activities: 
 
1. The Net Proceeds of the Green Finance Instruments 
can be credited to a sub-account, moved to a sub-
portfolio, or otherwise tracked by Masdar in an 
appropriate manner and documented.  
2. The process to manage the balance of unallocated 
Net Proceeds reflects the Climate Bond Standards  
► EY reviewed the Green Finance Framework to determine whether processes and controls are 
adequately in place to track proceeds. 
► EY conducted a process interview with the Company to understand further detail regarding 
internal processes and controls. 
 
 
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Ref Significant 
Process Certification Checklist Requirements  Testing Procedures and Observations 
3. The earmarking process can be used to manage and 
account for funding to the Nominated Projects & 
Assets and enables estimation of the share of the 
Net Proceeds being used for financing and 
refinancing 
 
4 Reporting Prior to 
Issuance 
► Masdar shall prepare a Green Finance Framework and 
make it publicly available prior to Issuance or at the time 
of Issuance. The Green Finance Framework shall include, 
without limitation: 
1. Confirmation that the Green Finance Instruments 
issued by the Green Finance Framework are aligned 
with the Climate Bond Standards. This may include 
statements of alignment with other applicable 
standards, such as EU Green Bond Standard, the 
ASEAN Green Bond Standard, Chinese domestic 
regulations, Japanese Green Bond Guidelines, etc.  
2. A summary of the expected use of proceeds, and 
the expected contribution of the relevant sectors or 
sub-sectors to the rapid transition required to 
achieve the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. 
3. On the methodology and assumptions to be used 
for: confirming, where required by relevant Sector 
Eligibility Criteria, the characteristics or 
performance of Nominated Projects & Assets 
required to conform to the relevant e ligibility 
requirements under Part C of the Climate Bonds 
Standard; and any other additional impact metrics 
that Masdar has defined. 
4. A summary of the approach to the management of 
unallocated Net Proceeds. 
5. The intended approach to providing Update Reports 
to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the Green Finance Instruments 
remains outstanding. 
6. The list of proposed Nominated Projects & Assets 
associated with the Green Finance Instruments and 
the investment areas, into which the Nominat ed 
Projects & Assets fall. Where there are limits on the 
amount of detail that can be made available about 
specific Nominated Projects & Assets, information 
shall be presented on the investment areas which 
the Nominated Projects & Assets fall into, and 
► EY reviewed processes and procedures in place in relation to disclosure documentation  including 
the public availability of the Green Finance Framework. 
► EY reviewed the Green Finance Framework to determine that all relevant requirements had been 
reported.  
► EY have not reviewed disclosure documentation; since this is pre -issuance assurance the 
disclosure documentation is not yet available. Masdar plans to report on an annual basis, 
with post-issuance assurance to be conducted annually.  
 
 
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Ref Significant 
Process Certification Checklist Requirements  Testing Procedures and Observations 
Masdar shall provide an explanation of why details 
on Nominated Projects & Assets are limited. 
7. Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used 
for refinancing, an estimate of the share of the Net 
Proceeds used for financing and refinancing, and 
the relevant Nominated Projects & Assets or 
investment areas which may be refinanced. This 
may also include the expected look -back period for 
refinanced Nominated Projects & Assets.  
 
► Masdar shall include in the Disclosure Documentation:  
 
1. The investment areas, into which the Nominated 
Projects & Assets fall. 
2. The intended types of temporary investment 
instruments for the management of unallocated Net 
Proceeds. 
3. The approach to providing Update Reports to 
reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the Green Finance Instrument 
remains outstanding, including the location of 
published documents. 
 
  
 
 
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
 
 
Confidential 
 
Annex B 
 
Nominated asset pool 
The pool of nominated assets for the Company are listed below. 
 
Potential Nominated Asset Abu Dhabi Future Energy 
Co – PJSC – MASDAR 
Country 
AGL Energy Limited 
Project Area 60 (Garadagh Solar PV) 
Solar Energy 
Azerbaijan 
Jizzakh Solar Project 
Uzbekistan Samarkand Solar Project 
Sherabad Solar Project 
Zarafshan Wind Farm Wind Energy Uzbekistan