© Sustainalytics 2021 
 
 
Second-Party Opinion 
Mastercard Sustainability Financing 
Framework  
 
Evaluation Summary 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework 
is credible and impactful and aligns with the Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018, Green 
Bond Principles 2018, Social Bond Principles 2020 and Green Loan Principles 2018. This 
assessment is based on the following:   
 
 The eligible categories for the use of proceeds – 
Green Buildings, Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy, Eco-efficient 
and/or Circular Economy Adapted Products, Production 
Technologies and Processes, Pollution Prevent ion and Control, 
Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural 
Resources and Land Use, Climate Change Adaptation, Mastercard 
Impact Fund, COVID -19 Response, In Solidarity  and Commercially 
Sustainable Social Impact – are aligned with those recognized by the 
Green Bond Principles 2018, Social Bond Principles 2020 and Green 
Loan Principles 2020.  Sustainalytics considers that the eligible 
categories will lead to positive environmental or social impacts and 
advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, specifically SDG 7, 
8, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 15. 
 
 Mastercard’s eligible projects 
will be evaluated and selected by a dedicated committee made up of 
representatives from the Company’s sustainability, finance and legal 
teams. Sustainalytics considers the project selection process to be 
in line with market practice.  
 
 Net proceeds will be managed by 
Mastercard ’s Finance department. The Company intends to fully 
allocate and/or disburse proceeds within 36 months of issuan ce of 
financing transactions. Pending full allocation, the  proceeds will 
temporarily be invested according to the Company’s normal liquidity  
processes. This is in line with market practice. 
 
 Mastercard intends to report on allocation of proceeds 
annually on its website  until full allocation . Allocation reporting will  
be validated by a  nationally recognized accounting firm and  include 
the balance amount of allocated and unallocated net proceeds, as 
well as the description of selected projects. The company is also 
committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics. Sustainalytics 
views Mastercard ’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with 
market practice. 
 
 
Evaluation date February 22, 2021 
Issuer Location New York, USA 
 
Report Sections 
 
 
Introduction .................................................. 2 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 
Appendices ................................................ 12 
 
 
For inquir ies, contact the  Sustainable 
Finance Solutions project team: 
Zach Margolis (Toronto)  
Project Manager 
zach.margolis@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 695 4341 
Ijeoma Madueke (Toronto) 
Project Support 
ijeoma.madueke@sustainalytics.com 
Zhenyi LV (Toronto)  
Project Support 
zhenyi.lv@morningstar.com 
Paramjot Kaur (New York) 
Client Relations 
susfinance.americas@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 9623     
 
  

Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
2 
Introduction 
Mastercard Incorporated (“Mastercard”, or the “Company”) is a global payments technology company  that 
offers a range of electronic fund transfer solutions to facilitate transactions globally. The Company is 
headquartered in New York , USA with 21,000 employees serving customers in more than 150 currencies 
across 210 countries and territories. 
Mastercard has develope d the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework (the “Framework”) under 
which it intends to issue sustainability bonds, green bonds, social bonds, green loans and other types of 
financing instruments (each a “Financing Transaction”) and use the proceeds to finance and/or refinance, in 
whole or in part, existing and/or future projects that demonstrate environmental and/or social benefits . The 
Framework defines eligibility criteria in seven green areas and four social areas: 
Green Eligible Categories: 
1. Green Buildings 
2. Energy Efficiency 
3. Renewable Energy 
4. Eco-efficient and/or Circular Economy Adapted Products, Production Technologies and Processes 
5. Pollution Prevention and Control 
6. Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use 
7. Climate Change Adaptation 
 
Social Eligible Categories: 
1. Mastercard Impact Fund 
2. COVID-19 Response  
3. In Solidarity  
4. Commercially Sustainable Social Impact 
Mastercard engaged Sustainalytics to review the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework , dated 
February 2021, and to provide a Second-Party Opinion on the Framework’s environmental and social 
credentials and its alignment with the Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018 (SBG),1 Green Bond Principles 2018 
(GBP), Social Bond Principles 2020 (SBP) and Green Loan Principles 2018 (GLP),2 This Framework has been 
published in a separate document.3  
Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics’ Second-Party Opinion 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent4 opinion on the alignment of the 
reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories 
are credible and impactful. 
As part of the Second-Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: 
• The Framework’s alignment with the GBP, SBP, and SBG (as administered by ICMA) and the GLP; 
• The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds; and 
• The alignment of the issuer ’s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk 
management in relation to the use of proceeds. 
For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version  1.7.1, which is 
informed by market practice and Sustainalytics’ expertise as an ESG research provider. 
 
1 The Sustainability Bond Guidelines are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at 
https://www.icmagroup.org/green-social-and-sustainability-bonds/sustainability-bond-guidelines-sbg/ 
2 The Green Loan Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at: 
https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/LMA_Green_Loan_Principles_Booklet-220318.pdf  
3 The Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework is available on Mastercard ’s website at: 
https://investor.mastercard.com/Sustainability/default.aspx 
4 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst 
independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management 
framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial and research 
(and engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific 
commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
3 
As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Mastercard’s 
management team to u nderstand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of 
proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. Mastercard 
representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibili ty of Mastercard to ensure that 
the information provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with 
all relevant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely 
manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non-public information. 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that 
Framework. 
Any update of the present Second -Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement 
conditions between Sustainalytics and Mastercard. 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market 
standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market 
standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 
projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The 
measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the 
responsibility of the Framework owner.  
In addition, the Second-Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee 
the realised allocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities. 
No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second -Party Opinion shall be considered as 
being a statement, representation, warrant or argument, either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that Mastercard has 
made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second-Party Opinion.   
Sustainalytics’ Opinion 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Mastercard Sustainability Financing 
Framework  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework is credible, impactful 
and aligns with the four core components of the GBP , SBP, SBG  and GLP . Sustainalytics highlights the 
following elements of Mastercard ’s Sustainability Financing Framework: 
• Use of Proceeds:  
- The eligible categor ies – Green Buildings, Energy Efficiency , Renewable Energy, Eco-efficient 
and/or Circular Economy Adapted Products, Production Technologies and Processes, Pollution 
Prevention and Control, Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources 
and Land Use , Climate Change Adaptation , Mastercard Impact Fund , COVID-19 Response, In 
Solidarity, Commercially Sustainable Social Impact  – are aligned with those recognized by the 
GBP, SBP and GLP.  
- The Framework defines three-year lookback period for its refinancing activities, 5  which 
Sustainalytics considers to be in line with market practice. 
- Within the Green Buildings category, Mastercard contemplates expenditures related to building 
development, upgrade, and white box build outs. 
▪ Mastercard intends to use reputable third -party certification schemes to determine 
green building eligibility for buildings. The Framework specifies minimum standards of 
LEED Gold, BREEAM Excellent or other equivalent certification. Sustainalytics has 
conducted an evaluation of these certification sch emes and considers them to be 
robust and credible. See Appendix 1 for further description of the referenced building 
standards. 
▪ The Framework specifies that in addition to buildings which meet the above-referenced 
levels of certification, Mastercard may consider as eligible, expenditures related to the 
 
5 Unless otherwise noted in the bond documentation 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
4 
upgrade of its offices in Belgium which are anticipated to achieve BREEAM Very Good 
certification. While Sustainlaytics considers BREEAM Excellent to be best practice, the 
use of Very Good for a refurbished b uilding is anticipated to deliver positive impacts 
overall, and Sustainlaytics encourages Mastercard to strive for energy performance in 
line with the requirements of BREEAM Excellent. 
▪ As it relat es to white box buildouts, 6  the Framework defines an energy  intensity 
threshold of 10 kWh/square foot for the project to be considered eligible. Sustainalytics 
views this threshold to be indicative of strong environmental performance, while noting 
that in leased buildings the share of total energy usage covered by this metric may vary 
based on the building services under the control of the landlord or tenant.  
- Mastercard’s investment in the Energy Efficiency category  is targeted at a range of projects in 
technology infrastructure  and real estate . For the real estate expenditures, t he Company is 
considering upgrades and retrofits such as LED lights and building heating and cooling systems. 
Mastercard has confirmed that upgrading fossil-powered equipment is not eligible unde r the 
Framework. Sustainalytics views favourably that the Framework defines a quantitative minimum 
improvement threshold in energy efficiency of 20% compared to the baseline performance. 
- Renewable Energy expenditures under the Framework may include the acquisition or 
development of new onsite or offsite generation projects in wind power, solar power, geothermal 
power with direct emissions less than 100gCO2/kWh, 7  and hydropower with an ins talled 
capacity of no more than 25 MW.  
▪ In addition to investing directly in projects, the Company intends to procure electricity 
via power purchase agreements (PPAs) and purchase project -specific fixed -price 
renewable energy certificates (RECs). Mastercard confirms that PPAs and RECs will be 
long-term agreements, which Sustainalytics views as providing greater assurance of 
positive impacts and aligned with market practice. 
▪ As part of the same category, Mastercard contemplates investments in new and/or 
existing energy storage capacity assets or via services under long -term capacity 
agreements, which Sustainalytics considers to be aligned with market expectation. 
- The Framework’s category of Eco-efficient and/or Circular Economy Adapted Products, 
Production Te chnologies and Processes contemplates investments related to e nabling 
environmental benefits through the use of Mastercard’s products and services. 
▪ Sustainalytics views positively projects related to supporting customers in monitoring 
and addressing the carbon impact of their purchases, considering this enabling 
technology to be in line with market expectations. 
- Within the Pollution Prevention and Control category, Mastercard is con sidering various 
initiatives related to waste reduction  and equipment electrification . Sustainalytics notes the 
following: 
▪ Mastercard may consider eligible, expenditures related to the reduction and recycling 
of waste at its c orporate offices . Sustainalytics considers such investments to be 
aligned with market expectation. 
▪ Switching equipment away from being powered by fossil-fuel to electric power. In this 
regard, Mastercard has confirmed that the proceeds under the Framework will not be 
used for the improvements and/or installation of fossil fuel equipment . Sustainalytics 
views such investments as having environmental benefits and to be aligned with 
market expectation. 
- Mastercard may finance under the Framework’s Environmentally Sustainable Ma nagement of 
Living Natural Resources and Land Use  category, forestation and tree planting initiatives. 
Sustainalytics views favourably such activities, noting that Mastercard has disclosed that it is 
not involved in commercial-scale forestry or post-harvest replanting. 
- Within the area of Climate Change Adaptation , Mastercard may invest in projects which are 
intended to increase the resiliency of the Company’s physical assets to the effects of climate 
change. Mastercard has disclosed that it is in the process of conducting asset-level vulnerability 
 
6 A white box buildout refers to the outfitting of a tenant-controlled space leased within a building and generally includes the installation of finishings, IT 
or other process equipment, and tenant-specific electrical fixtures.  
7 This threshold is considered to be in line with the 2-degree compliant transition, and has been espoused by the EU Technical Expert Group on 
Sustainable Finance and the Climate Bonds Initiative. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
5 
assessments, which will inform such investment decisions  and Sustainalytics views this to be 
aligned with market expectations. Sustainalytics further notes  the importance that  adaptation 
measures do not adversely affect broader resiliency efforts, and as such highlights Mastercard’s 
management of Environmental and Social risks (see Section 2). 
- Proceeds raised under the Framework  may finance contributions to  the Mastercard Impact 
Fund, namely those in the areas of Financial Security, Economic Development, the Future of 
Workers, and Data for Social Impact.  
▪ While these activities are philanthropic in nature, Sustainalytics highlights that the 
mission of the Mastercard Impact Fund is in these areas aligned with Mastercard’s 
objectives.  
▪ As recommended by the Social Bond Principles, the Framework defines target 
populations for each of these investment areas. 
▪ Sustainalytics views positively the expressed intent of these programs and highlig hts 
that Mastercard’s website discloses past projects which are recognized to have 
positive impact,8 noting the wide variety of potential activities in this category, and that 
the Framework does not define clear criteria about how new projects are selecte d or 
evaluated. Mastercard has disclosed that the Impact Fund is governed by a separate 
board, and therefore, the Company does not directly control project selection . 
Mastercard has provided Sustainalytics information on the fund’s project evaluation 
structure, including how new projects are identified as well as how due diligence and 
approvals are carried out by internal and external subject-matter experts. Based on the 
disclosures provided, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that projects funded will be 
aligned with the intents of the Framework and are anticipated to generate net-positive 
social impacts . Neve rtheless, Sustainalytics  encourages Mastercard to provide 
ongoing reporting indicating which projects of the Fund have been funded with bond 
proceeds and how they meet the objectives of the Framework. 
- In response to the COVID-19 Pandemic, Mastercard intends to provide supports to small 
business owners, in the form of no-cost access to products and services which will advance 
their businesses.9 Sustainalytics recognizes the disproportionate effects that COVID-19, and its 
consequent economic impacts and regulatory response, have had on small businesses, and 
therefore views positively these efforts to promote MSMEs.  
- The In Solidarity category relates to programs and initiatives that support underserved, excluded 
and/or marginalized populations. Specifically, Mastercard is targeting black -owned business 
and communities in the United States,10 and will allocate expenditures and investments related 
to providing products and services. for such entities with the goal to “combat discrimination and 
racism and to advance inclusion and equality ”.11 Sustainalytics views positively Mastercard’s 
intent to support black-owned businesses, and notes that this init iative may deliver both direct 
short-term benefits as well as further the preparation of such companies for the future economy.  
▪ Sustainalytics highlights that it considers it a market practice to ensure that small 
businesses are the target of such initiat ives, and encourages Mastercard to prioritize 
such entities within this category. 
- Within the Commercially Sustainable Social Impact  category, Mastercard has defined a list of 
products and services which it may provide to  target populations. These investments could 
include those geared towards financial inclusion, job creation, microcredit, digital payments and 
related infrastructure. 
▪ Target populations may be (i) people living below the poverty line (ii) excluded and/or 
marginalized populati ons including people with no access to banking or financial 
services (iii) the unemployed with a focus on advancing their inclusive growth through 
digitally-enabled initiatives. Additionally, the Company specifies targeting populations 
located in developing countries, emerging markets, and low to moderate income areas 
 
8 See: https://www.mastercardcenter.org/insights?type=Programs  
9 Sustainalytics recognizes that there are various approaches to measuring the value of intangible products and services. In this regard, Mastercard has 
confirmed the intention to benchmark against the market value of the products reflecting the Company’s potential costs of forgone revenue. 
10 Mastercard has confirmed that the classification for “black-owned business” refers to a company with at least 51% African American ownership 
structure. 
11 Eligible products and services could include financial, technology, product, and insight asset programs. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
6 
in developed countries , often through support for MSMEs, governments, academic 
institutions, and NGOs.  
▪ Sustainalytics recognizes that  these investments could lead to positive social 
outcomes such as improved connectivity, and better access to financial services for 
the target populations, while noting the wide variety of potentially eligible initiatives and 
encouraging Mastercard to report transparently on the benefits achieved. 
• Project Evaluation and Selection:  
- Mastercard’s eligible projects are evaluated and selected by a dedicated committee made up of 
representatives from the Company’s sustainability, finance and legal teams. 
- Sustainalytics considers that the collaboration between relevant business units strengthens the 
implementation of the Framework and is in line with market practice. 
• Management of Proceeds: 
- Mastercard’s Finance department will be responsible for allocating the net proceeds to eligible 
projects and actual spend will be monitored using its internal system. The Company intends to 
fully allocate and/or disburse all proceeds within 36 months from the issuance of any Financing 
Transaction. Pending allocation, the Company will temporarily invest an equal amount of the 
unallocated and/or undisbursed balance of proceeds according to Mastercard’s normal liquidity 
practices. 
- Based on the defined management approach and the disclosure around management of 
unallocated and/or undisbursed proceeds, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line 
with market practice. 
• Reporting: 
- The Company commits to publishing an allocation report on its website , which  will include 
amounts allocated to eligible projects, the remaining balance of unallocated net proceeds, case 
studies with additional information on highlighted projects . Furthermore, Mastercard commits 
to third party verification of each allocation report. 
- Mastercard intends to report annually on the estimated environmental and/or social impacts of 
the projects to which it has allocated proceeds. Some of the potental impact metrics include 
green building assets by certification type and level, annual GHG emissions reduced or avoided, 
annual energy savings, annual renewable energy generated and purchased, and businesses or 
individuals reached through programmes. 
- Sustainalytics considers Mastercard’s allocation and impact reporting processes to be aligned 
with market practice.  
Alignment with Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018 
Sustainalytics has determined that t he Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework aligns with the 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines and the four core components  of the GBP, GLP and SBP . For detailed 
information please refer to Appendix 2: Sustainability Bond/ Sustainability Bond Programme External Review 
Form. 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of Mastercard 
Contribution of Framework to Mastercard ’s sustainability performance and strategy 
Mastercard has demonstrated a commitment to integrating sustainability considerations within its internal 
operations, supply chain and through its product offerings. The Company’s sustainability mission is centred 
around the concep t of “ an inclusive, digital economy that benefits everyone ”. Mastercard has implemented 
quantitative targets  for environmental and social performance , which are  described in its  Corporate 
Sustainability Report.12  
The Company highlights its priority on cli mate change by setting out a science -based emissions target that 
aligns to a 1.5 -degree Celsius climate trajectory  as part of its contribution to the Paris Agreement13. In this 
regard, Mastercard commits to reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 38% as well as absolute 
 
12Mastercard Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 at, https://www.mastercard.us/content/dam/mccom/global/aboutus/Sustainability/mastercard-
sustainability-report-2019.pdf  
13 Science Based Targets, “Companies Taking Action”, available at: https://sciencebasedtargets.org/companies-taking-action#table 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
7 
Scope 3 GHG emissions 20%  by 2025 from a 2016 base year.  Other notable environmental goals and 
achievement are outlined below: 
• All campuses and data centers owned by Mastercard  are certified by LEED and about 85% of its 
global workspaces meet various regional or international green certification standards. Furthermore, 
Mastercard installed submetering technology across various  offices in order to identify energy -
saving opportunities to help reach the Company’s science-based emission reduction goals. 
• Mastercard has been named 2020 Gold-level Green Lease Leader by the U.S. Department of Energy 
and the Institute for Market Transformation. 
• In January 2021, Mastercard committed to a target of net zero emissions by 2050, further advancing 
efforts towards environmental sustainability and building on the Company’s existing commitment to 
the Science-Based Targets Initiative and the United Nations Business Ambition for 1.5o C. 
• In April 2020, Mastercard joined RE100, to formalize the Company’s commitment to source 100% 
renewable electricity across its global operations. To this effect, Mastercard generated about 2,600 
MWh of renewable energy through solar panels in 2019. 
• The Company launched the Priceless Plan et Coalition in January 2020 which included a pledge to 
plant 100 million trees over five years alongside other partners. 
• In partnership with Doconomy, Mastercard is sensitizing its customers to their environmental impact 
by equipping its customers with the ability to track and understand their carbon footprint based on 
their purchases. 
• Mastercard received an “A” rat ing for supplier engagement from CDP, a global environmental 
disclosure system, as part of its efforts to make its supply chain more sustainable. 
Additionally, Mastercard has undertaken various activities and set out social targets as part of its overarching 
sustainability goal of “inclusive growth”. Some highlights: 
• The Company has committed to digital inclusion of 1 billion people by 2025 as a means to economic 
empowerment and reduce inequalities across communities. Two key pillars of this goal are the focus 
on empowering (i) 50 million micro and small businesses, and (ii) 25 million women -owned and 
women-run businesses. 
• Programmes and initiatives such as: 
- The Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth (the “Center”) which promotes  equitable and 
sustainable economic growth. In 2019, the Center partnered with the Rockefeller Foundation to 
leverage data for social impact and with the Aspen Institute for the Global Inclusive Growth 
Partnership. 
- The Mastercard Impact Fund whose investments are administered by the C enter. Grants 
amounting to $5.26 million were provided to approximately 4 million micro and small business 
across Pakistan, Peru and Vietnam in 2019 through tools and services that support their growth.  
- The Mastercard Lab for Financial Inclusion which is based in Nairobi, Kenya and the financial 
solutions developed are deployed across different countries. This initiative is geared towards 
providing financial security solutions to individuals as well as micro and small businesses.  
• Providing digital products to supply chains that are traditionally underserved including Mastercard’s 
partnership with the Neumann Kaffee Gruppe (NKG) and its Mexican subsidiary, Exportadora de Café 
California (ECC) that allows farmers to get paid directly by NKG empowering 1,200 farmers as at May 
2020. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework  is aligned with the 
Company’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives and will further the Company’s action on its key social 
and environmental priorities. 
Well-positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
While Sustainalytics recognizes that the proceeds from the Financing Transactions under the Framework will 
be direct ed towards projects that are anticipated to have positive environmental and social impact, such 
eligible projects could also lead to negative environmental and social outcomes. Some key environmental and 
social risks associated with the classes of investme nt include employee health and safety , environmental 
impacts related to the Company’s operations and other activities, legal or consumer finance risks pertaining 
to financial transactions. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
8 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Mastercard is able to manage and/or mitigate potential risks through 
implementation of the following: 
• Mastercard’s Code of Conduct which guides  its global operations and specifies the Company’s 
policies as it relates to business ethics, regulatory compliance and overall corporate responsibility.14 
- This policy requires all its directors, officers, employees and contingent staff to engage in honest 
and ethical conduct in performing their duties.  
- As a leading payment service provider in the world  payment service provider s in the world, 
Mastercard has outlined its approach designed to prevent its products, services and 
technologies from being used for illegal transactions, corrupt practices and money laundering 
activities. Furthermore, the Company’s data and privacy policies and programs as well as the 
global data responsibility imperative  emphasize the Company’s position  on the security and 
privacy, transparency, control, accountability and integrity of handling personal information. 
• Mastercard has a Corporate Security Department, People & Capabilities Team and Workplace Safety 
Team, all of which together reinforce the Company’s commitment to providing safe working physical 
and virtual environments for its employees. These groups are responsible for and actively manage 
employee and workplace safety risks  through physical, technical and administrative safety 
protection.15  
• Additionally, Mastercard has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct which it requires all suppliers to 
adhere to. The code specifies the Company’s expectations for health and safety  and no n-
discrimination in employment practices and an overarching commitment for its supplier to conduct 
business in a legal, ethical, and socially responsible manner.16  
• In recognition of its geographical footprint and  environmental stewardship , Mastercard actively 
monitors and annually reports on its environmental impacts, including GHG emission, renewable 
energy breakdown, green building and data center management.17  
• With regards to data and information , Mastercard has established a clear governance structure to 
ensure the protection of customer data, with the Chief Privacy Officer, Chief Data Officer, and Data 
Protection Officer designated as responsible for managing the Company’s global privacy program.  
Based on th ese policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Mastercard has 
implemented adequate measures and is well -positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social  
risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
All eleven use of proceeds categories are aligned with those recognized by GBP , GLP , SBG  or SBP . 
Sustainalytics has focused on two below where the impact is specifically relevant in  the context of 
Mastercard’s key business operations. 
The importance of promoting responsible consumption  
Over the past 150 years, human activities have been the direct cause of the vast majority of increases in GHG 
in the atmosphere. 18  According to the United States , Environmental Protection Agency a large share of 
greenhouse gas emissions are related to activit ies in which individual consumption decisions may have a 
direct bearing, such as transportation, electricity, powering commercial and residential buildings, a nd 
agriculture. Together these activities account for 78% of the total GHG emission in the U nited States.19 The 
average carbon footprint for typical U.S. households is 48 metric tons CO2e/yr, where 10-30% of the emission 
 
14 Mastercard, Code of Conduct, available at: https://s25.q4cdn.com/479285134/files/doc_downloads/code_of_conduct/2021/01/2020-Code-of-
Conduct-English-Final.pdf 
15 Mastercard Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 at, https://www.mastercard.us/content/dam/mccom/global/aboutus/Sustainability/mastercard-
sustainability-report-2019.pdf 
16 Mastercard, Supplier Code of Conduct, at: 
https://cddbtesthdi.blob.core.windows.net/sourcelibrary/1014355442/C23B351B82272F05DEECADCBA42582C78DD22726209D2FFF6F5625F51B3E4
11D.pdf  
17 Mastercard, Sustainability Report 2019, available at: https://www.mastercard.us/content/dam/mccom/global/aboutus/Sustainability/mastercard-
sustainability-report-2019.pdf  
18 United States Environmental Protection Agency, Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, at: https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/sources-greenhouse-
gas-emissions  
19 United States Environmental Protection Agency, Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, at: https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/sources-greenhouse-
gas-emissions  
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
9 
comes from food, while o ther major household emission sources also include residential electricity use, 
heating and personal transportation.20  
Mastercard has recognized the importance of increasing individual awareness of their environmental impacts 
and the need for  action towards reducing GHG emission s. One tool that the Company has developed is  
Mastercard Carbon Calculator which enables users to track their personal carbon footprint based on 
purchasing activities.21 Mastercard highlights the role that purchasing power plays in promoting sustainable 
and responsible consumption by providing information on patterns, tips on how to reduce carbon emission s 
as well as offering options for customers to compensate for their emissions through tree planting projects.22  
Sustainalytics is o f the opinion that Mastercard’s investments in technology that tracks the impact of 
individual activities will encourage the reduction of  overall emissions, has the potential to drive more 
sustainable and responsible consumption behaviour and contribute to wards global environmental target s 
such as the Paris Agreement. 
Importance of digital financial inclusion in the modern economy 
Research from the World Bank indicates that an estimated  1.7 billion adults around the world do not have 
bank accounts, with the largest gaps in financial services existing for individuals based in developing countries 
in Asia and Africa.23 The low levels of financial inclusion relative to developed countries has been attributed 
primarily to overall income levels. While about 93% of the population in high income economies have access 
to banking services, the number is only about 63% for low and middle income economies.24  
Access to financial services is a key component of economic development due to its  high correlation with 
access to other basic services such as  housing, healthcare and education. 25 Considering there are more  
people without access to financial services in underdeveloped and developing regions, t he lack of financial 
access also limits the potential economic development and poverty reduction for this segment of the world’s 
population.26  In response, the  World Bank has launched the Universal Financial Access 2020 Initiatives, 
partnering with 14 banks and financial services companies, including Mastercard, to increase the access to a 
transaction account for adults globally.27 A variety of the activities which Mastercard may finance are directly 
related to promoting inclusion in the modern and digital economies, through supports targeted to both end 
consumers and to small businesses and entrepreneurs. 
Based on the above , Sustainalytics is of the view that the Mastercard Impact Fund and activities under the 
Framework related to financial inclusion will have a positive impact on job generation and improve economic 
growth in developing countries and contribute to reducing the inequalities faced by underserved populations. 
Alignment with/contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 by the United Nations General 
Assembly and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. The Financing 
Transactions issued under the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework advances the following SDGs 
and targets:  
 
20 University of Michigan, Center for Sustianble Systems,Carbon footprint factsheet, at: http://css.umich.edu/factsheets/carbon-footprint-factsheet  
21 Mastercard corporate website, Mastercard Carbon Calculator, at: https://www.mastercard.us/en-us/vision/corp-responsibility/priceless-
planet/carbon-calculator.html  
22 Mastercard corporate website, Purchasing power plus carbon footprint tracking: https://www.mastercard.com/news/perspectives/2020/purchasing-
power-plus-carbon-footprint-tracking/ 
23 The World Bank, Global Financial Inclusion (Global Findex) Database, at: https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/dataset/global-financial-inclusion-global-
findex-database  
24 ENIF (2018), “National Survey for Financial Inclusion”, https://www.gob.mx/cms/uploads/attachment/file/435813/ENIF_2018_en.pdf 
25 United Nations Secetary-General’s Special Advocate for Inclusive Finance for Development, Financial Inclusion, at: https://www.unsgsa.org/financial-
inclusion 
26 The World Bank, UFA2020 Overview: Universal Financial Access by 2020, at: https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/financialinclusion/brief/achieving-
universal-financial-access-by-2020  
27 The World Bank, Getting to Universal Financial Access 2020, at: https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/infographic/2016/10/04/getting-to-universal-
financial-access-2020  
Use of Proceeds 
Category 
SDG SDG target 
Green Buildings 9. Industry, Innovation 
and Infrastructure 
9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit 
industries to make them sustainable, with 
increased resource-use efficiency and greater 
adoption of clean and environmentally sound 
technologies and industrial processes, with all 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
10 
 
  
countries taking action in accordance with their 
respective capabilities 
Energy Efficiency 7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of 
improvement in energy efficiency 
Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix 
Eco-efficient and/or 
Circular Economy 
Adapted Products, 
Production Technologies 
and Processes 
13. Climate Action 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and 
human and institutional capacity on climate 
change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction 
and early warning 
Pollution Prevention and 
Control 
12. Responsible 
Consumption and 
Production 
12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste 
generation through prevention, reduction, 
recycling and reuse 
Environmentally 
Sustainable Management 
of Living Natural 
Resources and Land Use 
15. Life on Land 
 
15.a Mobilize and significantly increase financial 
resources from all sources to conserve and 
sustainably use biodiversity and ecosystems 
Climate Change 
Adaptation 
13. Climate Action 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity 
to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in 
all countries 
Mastercard Impact Fund 8. Decent Work and 
Economic Growth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Reduced 
Inequalities  
8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity 
through diversification, technological upgrading 
and innovation, including through a focus on high-
value added and labour-intensive sectors 
8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that 
support productive activities, decent job creation, 
entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and 
encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, 
small- and medium-sized enterprises, including 
through access to financial services 
10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, 
economic and political inclusion of all, 
irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, 
origin, religion or economic or other status 
COVID-19 Response 
In Solidarity 
Commercially 
Sustainable Social 
Impact 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
11 
Conclusion  
Mastercard has developed the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework under which it intends to 
undertake Financing Transactions and use the proceeds finance and/or refinance, in whole or in part, a range 
of existing and/or future projects that demonstrate environmental and social benefits. By focusing on 
activities that minimize the carbon footprint of its operations, supply chain and customer activities as well as 
providing tools for underserved populations, Mastercard is supporting responsible consumption and inclusive 
growth. Sustainalytics considers that the projects funded by the sustainable financing are expected to provide 
positive environmental impact and social impact.  
The Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, 
allocated, and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and impact of the 
use of proceeds. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework is 
aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the company and that the use of proceeds categories will 
contribute to the advancement of  the UN Sustainable Development Goa ls 7, 8, 9 10, 12, 13 and 15.  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Mastercard has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate 
environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects to which the proceeds have 
been allocated. 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Mastercard is well -positioned to issue sustainability 
bonds, green bonds, social bonds, green loans , and that the Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework 
is robust, transparent, and in alignment wi th the Sustainability Bond Guidelines (2018) and the four core 
components of the Green Bond Principles (2018), Social Bond Principles (2020) and Green Loan Principles 
(2020).  
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
12 
Appendices 
Appendix 1: Overview of Green Building Certification Schemes 
  LEED BREEAM 
Background  Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) is a U.S.-
based, globally-used certification 
system for the rating of green 
buildings across various building 
types. LEED was developed by the non-
profit U.S. Green Building Council 
(USGBC) and includes programs 
covering the design, construction, 
maintenance and operation of 
buildings. 
BREEAM (Building Research 
Establishment Environmental Assessment 
Method) was first published by the 
Building Research Establishment (BRE) in 
1990.  
 
Based in the UK.   
 
Various schemes for new and refurbished 
buildings, as well as for the design phase 
or “in use” phase of a building. 
Certification levels  Certified 
Silver 
Gold 
Platinum 
Pass   
Good   
Very Good  
Excellent  
Outstanding  
Areas of 
Assessment: 
Environmental 
Performance of the 
Building  
Energy and atmosphere 
Sustainable Sites 
Location and Transportation 
Materials and resources 
Water efficiency 
Indoor environmental quality 
Innovation in Design 
Regional Priority 
Energy   
Land Use and Ecology   
Pollution  
Transport   
Materials   
Water  
Waste  
Health and Wellbeing   
Innovation  
Requirements  Prerequisites (independent of level of 
certification) + Credits with associated 
points. 
 
These points are then added together 
to obtain the LEED certification level. 
There are several different rating 
systems within LEED. Each rating 
system is designed to apply to a 
specific sector (e.g. New Construction, 
Major Renovation, Core and Shell 
Development, Schools-/Retail-
/Healthcare New Construction and 
Major Renovations, Existing Buildings: 
Operation and Maintenance). 
Prerequisites depending on the levels of 
certification + Credits with associated 
points   
  
This number of points is then weighted by 
item15 and gives a BREEAM level of 
certification, which is based on the overall 
score obtained (expressed as a 
percentage). Majority of BREEAM issues 
are flexible, meaning that the client can 
choose which to comply with to build their 
BREEAM performance score.   
  
BREEAM has two stages/ audit reports: a 
‘BREEAM Design Stage’ and a ‘Post 
Construction Stage’, with different 
assessment criteria.   
  
Performance 
display  
 
 
 

Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
13 
Accreditation  LEED AP BD+C 
LEED AP O+M 
BREEAM Assessor, licensed and qualified 
by BRE  
Qualitative 
considerations  
 
Widely recognised internationally, and 
strong assurance of overall quality. 
BREEAM and various national versions of 
BREEAM are considered robust and well-
regarded in their markets and focus on the 
important environmental impacts of 
buildings both generally and in their local 
market context. 
 
Over 500,000 BREEAM certificates have 
been issued across more than 80 
countries.  
  
 
Appendix 2: Sustainability Bond / Sustainability Bond Programme - External 
Review Form 
Section 1. Basic Information 
Issuer name: Mastercard  
Sustainability Bond ISIN or Issuer Sustainability 
Bond Framework Name, if applicable: 
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework  
Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics 
Completion date of this form:  February 22, 2021 
Publication date of review publication:   
Section 2. Review overview 
SCOPE OF REVIEW 
The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review.  
The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP, SBG, GLP and SBP: 
☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and 
Selection 
☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting 
ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER 
☒ Consultancy (incl. 2nd opinion) ☐ Certification 
☐ Verification ☐ Rating 
☐ Other (please specify):   
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
14 
Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review.  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) 
Please refer to Evaluation Summary above.  
 
 
Section 3. Detailed review 
Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment 
section to explain the scope of their review.  
1. USE OF PROCEEDS 
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
 
The eligible categories for the use of proc eeds Green Buildings, Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy, Eco -
efficient and/or Circular Economy Adapted Products, Production Technologies and Processes, Pollution 
Prevention and Control, Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use, 
Climate Change Adaptation, Mastercard Impact Fund, COVID -19 Response, In Solidarity  and Commercially 
Sustainable Social Impact are aligned with those recognized by the Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018, Green 
Bond Principles 2018, Social Bond Principles 2020 and Green Loan Principles 2020. Sustainalytics considers 
that the eligible categories will lead to positive environmental or social impacts and advance the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals, specifically SDG 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 15. 
 
 
Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: 
☒ Renewable energy ☒ Energy efficiency  
☒ Pollution prevention and control ☒ Environmentally sustainable management of 
living natural resources and land use 
☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity 
conservation 
☐ Clean transportation 
☐ Sustainable water and wastewater 
management  
☒ Climate change adaptation 
☒ Eco-efficient and/or circular economy 
adapted products, production technologies 
and processes 
☒ Green buildings 
☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected 
to conform with GBP categories, or other 
eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs 
☐ Other (please specify):  
If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 
 
Use of proceeds categories as per SBP: 
☐ Affordable basic infrastructure ☐ Access to essential services  
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
15 
☐ Affordable housing ☐ Employment generation (through SME financing 
and microfinance) 
☐ Food security ☐ Socioeconomic advancement and 
empowerment 
☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected 
to conform with SBP categories, or other 
eligible areas not yet stated in SBP 
☒ Other (please specify): Mastercard Impact Fund, 
COVID-19 Response, In Solidarity, Commercially 
Sustainable Social Impact 
If applicable please specify the social taxonomy, if other than SBP: 
 
2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION 
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
 
Mastercard’s eligible projects will be  evaluated and selected by a dedicated committee made up of 
representatives from the Company’s sustainability, finance and legal teams.  Sustainalytics considers the 
project selection process to be in line with market practice.  
 
Evaluation and selection 
☒ Credentials on the issuer’s social and green 
objectives 
☒ Documented process to determine that 
projects fit within defined categories  
☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects 
eligible for Sustainability Bond proceeds 
☐ Documented process to identify and 
manage potential ESG risks associated 
with the project 
☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and 
selection publicly available 
☐ Other (please specify): 
Information on Responsibilities and Accountability  
☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to 
external advice or verification 
☐ In-house assessment 
☐ Other (please specify):   
3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS 
Overall comment on section (if applicable): 
 
Net proceeds will be managed by Mastercard ’s Finance department. The Company commits to fully allocate 
and/or disburse proceeds within 36 months of issuance of financing transactions. Pending full allocation, the 
proceeds will temporarily be invested according to the Company’s normal liquidity  processes. This is in line 
with market practice. 
 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
16 
Tracking of proceeds: 
☒ Sustainability Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate 
manner 
☐ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated 
proceeds 
☐ Other (please specify): 
Additional disclosure: 
☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future 
investments 
☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of 
disbursements 
☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of 
unallocated proceeds 
☐ Other (please specify): 
 
4. REPORTING 
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
 
Mastercard intends to report on allocation of proceeds annually on its website until full allocation. Allocation 
reporting will be validated by a nationally recognized accounting firm and include the balance amount of 
allocated and unallocated net proceeds, as well as the description of selected projects. The company is also 
committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics. Sustainalytics views Mastercard ’s allocation and impact 
reporting as aligned with market practice. 
Use of proceeds reporting: 
☐ Project-by-project ☒ On a project portfolio basis 
☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): 
Information reported: 
☐ Allocated amounts ☐ Sustainability Bond financed share of 
total investment 
☐ Other (please specify):   
Frequency: 
☒ Annual ☐ Semi-annual 
☐ Other (please specify):  
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
17 
Impact reporting: 
☐ Project-by-project ☒ On a project portfolio basis 
☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): 
Information reported (expected or ex-post): 
☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒  Energy Savings  
☐ Decrease in water use ☒  Number of beneficiaries 
☐ Target populations ☒  Other ESG indicators (please 
specify): Green buildings by 
certification type and level, 
Renewable energy generate 
and/or purchased 
Frequency: 
☒ Annual ☐ Semi-annual 
☐ Other (please specify):   
Means of Disclosure 
☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability 
report 
☐ Information published in ad hoc 
documents 
☐ Other (please specify): 
☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to 
external review): 
 
Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. 
 
USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) 
 
 
 
SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE 
Type(s) of Review provided: 
☐ Consultancy (incl. 2nd opinion) ☐ Certification 
☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating 
☐ Other (please specify): 
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
18 
Review provider(s): Date of publication: 
  
 
 
ABOUT ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP AND THE SBP 
i. Second-Party Opinion: An institution with sustainability expertise that is independent from the issuer may 
provide a Second -Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its 
Sustainability Bond framework, or appropriate procedures such as information barriers will have been 
implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second-Party Opinion.  It normally entails 
an assessment of the alignment with the Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s 
overarching objectives, strategy, policy, and/or processes relating to sustainability and an evaluation of the 
environmental and social features of the type of Projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. 
ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically 
pertaining to business processes and/or sustainability criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with 
internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally or socially 
sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. 
Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use  of proceeds, allocation of 
funds from Sustainability Bond proceeds, statement of environmental or social impact or alignment of 
reporting with the Principles may also be termed verification. 
iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Sustainability Bond or ass ociated Sustainability Bond framework or Use 
of Proceeds certified against a recognised external sustainability standard or label. A standard or label defines 
specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which 
may verify consistency with the certification criteria.  
iv. Green, Social and Sustainability Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Sustainability Bond, associated 
Sustainability Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds  evaluated or assessed by qualified 
third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established 
scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental and/or social performance 
data, process relative to the Principles, or another benchmark, such as a 2 -degree climate change scenario. 
Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material sustainability risks. 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
19 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2021 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics 
and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form 
and format disclose d by Sustainalytics, or  provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is 
ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any 
product or project;  (2) do not constitute investment advice, financ ial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be 
interpreted as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business 
transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations 
nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. 
These are  based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their 
merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up-to-dateness or fitness for a particular purpose. The information 
and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. 
Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions 
contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third 
party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not 
constitute a  sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our third -party data providers and their 
respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, 
visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version 
shall prevail.  
Second-Party Opinion  
Mastercard Sustainability Financing Framework   
  
 
  
 
20 
About Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company 
Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports 
investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. 
The firm works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG 
and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s 
foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to gover nments, also rely on 
Sustainalytics for credible second-party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, 
Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” for 
the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External 
Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com.