mBank S.A. Group 
POST-ISSUANCE VERIFICATION LETTER  
LOW CARBON BUILDINGS, WIND ENERGY AND SOLAR ENERGY CRITERIA OF THE CLIMATE 
BONDS STANDARD 
Type of engagement: Assurance Engagement 
Period engagement was carried out: August 2024 
Approved verifier: Sustainalytics 
Contact address for engagement: De Entrée 35-37 – 1101 BH, P.O. Box 22703 – 1100 DE, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
Post-Issuance Engagement Leader: Siga Wu, siga.wu@morningstar.com, (+31) 205 602 936 
Post-Issuance Engagement Support: Astrid Bruchou, astrid.bruchou@morningstar.com  
 
Scope and Objectives 
In September 2023, mBank S.A. Group (“mBank”) issued green bond series 121 (the “Green Bond”) 
under the mBank S.A. Group Green Bond Framework2 to finance and refinance residential buildings 
and renewable energy projects aimed at improving the sustainability performance of its real estate 
and renewable energy portfolios in Poland. In August 2024, mBank engaged Sustainalytics to review 
the projects financed through the  Green Bond  between September 2023 and July 2024 (the 
“Nominated Projects”), and provide an assessment as to whether the Nominated Projects meet the 
Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0.3 
The Nominated Projects include:  
• Low Carbon Buildings 
o  Single-family houses 
o  Multi-family houses 
• Renewable Energy  
o Solar photovoltaics 
o Wind farms 
Schedule 1 provides details of the Nominated Projects and disbursement of proceeds. 
Post-Issuance Evaluation Criteria 
Post-issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0: 
• Use of Proceeds 
• Evaluation and Selection of Projects , including conformance with the relevant Sector 
Criteria 
- Low Carbon Buildings 
 
1 mBank S.A. Group green bond series 12 (ISIN XS2680046021), at: https://www.mbank.pl/en/investor-relations/ratings-debt-
instruments/green-bonds/ 
2 mBank S.A. Group Green Bond Framework (February 2022), at: https://www.mbank.pl/en/investor-relations/ratings-debt-instruments/green-
bonds/ 
3 Climate Bonds Initiative, Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0, at: https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/climate-bonds-standard-v3-
20191210.pdf 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
2 
▪ Residential Buildings4 
- Renewable Energy  
▪ Wind Energy5 
▪ Solar Energy (Solar Photovoltaic)6 
• Management of Proceeds 
• Reporting 
Issuing Entity’s Responsibility  
mBank is responsible for providing accurate information and documentation relating to the details 
of projects, including description, total development cost of each project and disbursed amounts. 
Independence and Quality Control  
Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG and corporate governance research and ratings to investors, 
conducted the verification of mBank’s Green Bond to provide an independent opinion on its  
conformance with the Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Sustainalytics has relied on the information and the facts presented by mBank with respect to the 
Nominated Projects. Sustainalytics is not responsible nor shall be held liable for any inaccuracies in 
the opinions, findings or conclusions herein due to incorrect or incomplete data provided by mBank.  
Sustainalytics makes all efforts to ensure the highest quality and rigor during its assessment process 
and enlisted its Sustainability Bonds Review Committee to provide oversight over this assessment. 
Verifier’s Responsibility 
Sustainalytics conducted the verification in accordance with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 
and with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). 
The work undertaken as part of this engagement included conversations with relevant mBank 
employees and review of relevant documentation to assess conformance of mBank’s Green Bond 
with the Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
Exceptions 
No exceptions were identified. All projects meet the Post -Issuance Requirements of the Climate 
Bonds Standard Version 3.0 and the Low Carbon Buildings, Wind Energy and Solar Energy criteria.  
Conclusion 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, nothing has come to 
Sustainalytics’ attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the allocation of EUR 
750 million net proceeds from mBank’s Green Bond is not in conformance with the Post -Issuance 
Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard 3.0.  
  
 
4 Climate Bonds Standard, Low-Carbon Buildings Criteria under the Climate Standard, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/Residential%20Proxy%20Poland%281%29.pdf 
5 Climate Bonds Standard, Wind Energy Criteria under the Climate Standard, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/standards/Wind/Sector%20Criteria%20-%20Wind%20Energy%20%28April%202023%29.pdf  
6 Climate Bonds Standard, Solar Energy Criteria under the Climate Standard. See more, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/standards/Solar/Sector%20Criteria%20-%20Solar%20%28April%202023%29.pdf  
 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
3 
Schedule 1: Overview of Nominated Projects 
In September 2023, mBank raised EUR 750 million under the Green Bond issuance. Of this, 75% (EUR 
562.5 million) was allocated to refinancing existing projects and 25% (EUR 187.5 million) to financing 
new projects. 
 
Table 1. Details of Nominated Projects and allocation of proceeds 
 
Project Category Project Type Number of 
Loans 
Committed Amount  
(PLN million)7 
Committed Amount  
(EUR million)8 
Residential 
Buildings 
Multi-family 
house 2,784 1,273.83 295.20  
Single-family 
house 2,523 1,292.00 299.73 
Total  5,307 2,565.83  594.93  
Renewable 
Energy  
Wind Farm 7 345.11  80.02  
Solar 
Photovoltaic 13 474.75  110.07  
 Total 20 819.86 190.09 
Total Amount Allocated (EUR million) 785.029 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
7 Polish zloty (PLN) is the official currency of Poland. 
8 EUR/PLN exchange rate of 4.3130 as of 28 June 2024, is used for calculating the committed amount.  
9 Sustainalytics notes that the committed amount (EUR 785.02 million) exceeds the amount raised under the Green Bond (EUR 750 million). 
mBank has communicated to Sustainalytics that the excess allocation amount (EUR 35.02 million) is from off-balance sheet assets that is yet 
to be disbursed as of June 28, 2024, and is expected to be covered by loan repayments. 
 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
4 
Schedule 2A: Post-Issuance Requirements of the 
Climate Bonds Standard 
Use of 
Proceeds 
5.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be allocated to the Nominated Projects & Assets. 
5.2 All nominated Projects & Assets shall meet the documented objectives of the Bond 
as stated under Clause 6.1.1 and shall be in conformance with the requirements of 
Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
5.3 The Issuer shall allocate the Net Proceeds to Nominated Projects & Assets within 24 
months of issuance of the Bond, or the Issuer shall disclose in post -issuance 
reporting as per clause 8.3 the estimated timeline for allocation of net proceeds to 
Nominated Projects & Assets. Net proceeds may be reallocated to other Nominated 
Projects & Assets at any time while the Bond remains outstanding. 
5.4 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other Certified Climate 
Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, 
green loans or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds) 
unless it is demonstrated by the Issuer that: 
5.4.1. distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & Assets are being funded by 
different Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt 
Instruments, green bonds, green loans or other labelled instruments or; 
5.4.2. the existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate 
Debt Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified Climate Bond, Certified 
Climate Loan or Certified Climate Debt Instrument. 
5.5 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds of the Bond are used for refinancing, the 
Issuer shall track the share of the Net Proceeds used for financing and refinancing 
and identify which Nominated Projects & Assets may be refinanced. This may also 
include the expected look-back period for refinanced Nominated Projects & Assets. 
5.6 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be tracked by the Issuer following a formal 
internal process which is documented in accordance with Clause 3.1. 
5.7 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be no greater than the Issuer’s total investment 
exposure or debt obligation to the Nominated Projects & Assets, or the relevant 
proportion of the total Market Value of the Nominated Projects & Assets which are 
owned or financed by the Issuer. 
5.8 Additional Nominated Project & Assets may be added to, or used to substitute or 
replenish, the portfolio of Nominated Project & Assets as long as the additional 
Nominated Project & Assets are eligible under Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard 
and are consistent with the Bond’s objective as set out in Clause 6.1.1. 
5.8.1. Where additional Nominated Projects & Assets are covered by Sector Eligibility 
Criteria which were not included in the scope of either the Pre -Issuance Verification 
or the Post-Issuance Verification engagements, the Issuer shall engage a Verifier to 
provide a Verifier’s Report covering at least the conformance of the additional 
Nominated Projects & Assets with the relevant Sector Eligibility Criteria under Part C 
of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Process for 
Evaluation 
and Selection 
of Projects & 
Assets 
6.1 The Issuer shall document and maintain a decision-making process which it uses to 
determine the continuing eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. This 
includes, without limitation: 
6.1.1. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond; 
6.1.2. How the climate -related objectives of the Bond are positioned within. the 
context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes 
relating to environmental sustainability; 
6.1.3. The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond; 
6.1.4. A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & Assets meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard; 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
5 
6.1.5. Other information provided by the Issuer as described in Clause 2.2 
Management 
of Proceeds 
7.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be credited to a sub account, moved to a sub - 
portfolio or otherwise identified by the Issuer in an appropriate manner, and 
documented. 
7.2 The Issuer of the Bond shall maintain the earmarking process to manage and 
account for allocation of Net Proceeds to the Nominated Projects & Assets as 
described in Clause 3.1.3 
7.3 While the Bond remains outstanding, the balance of the tracked Net Proceeds shall 
be reduced by amounts allocated to Nominated Projects & Assets. Pending such 
allocations to Nominated Projects & Assets, the balance of unallocated Net 
Proceeds shall be: 
7.3.1. Held in temporary investment instruments that are cash, or cash equivalent 
instruments, within a Treasury function; or 
7.3.2. Held in temporary investment instruments that do not include greenhouse gas 
intensive projects which are inconsistent with the delivery of a low carbon and 
climate resilient economy; or 
7.3.3. Applied to temporarily reduce indebtedness of a revolving nature before being 
redrawn for investments or disbursements to Nominated Projects & Assets. 
Reporting – 
Post-issuance  
8.1 The Issuer shall prepare an Update Report at least annually while the Bond remains 
outstanding. 
8.1.2. The Update Report shall be made available to holders of the Bond and to the 
Climate Bonds Standard Board. 
8.1.3. The Issuer should provide an Update Report to holders of the Bond on a timely 
basis in case of material developments. 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
6 
Schedule 2B: Conformance to the Post-Issuance 
Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard 
Evaluation 
Criteria 
Factual Findings Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Use of 
Proceeds  
5.1 A list of Nominated Projects is provided in Schedule 1. 
 
5.2 The Nominated Project  meets the documented objectives of the 
finance and are in conformance with the requirements of Part C of 
the Climate Bonds Standard. 
5.3 The Net Proceeds have been allocated to Nominated Projects within 
24 months of issuance of the bond.  
5.4 mBank confirms that  the Nominated Projects have not been 
nominated to other Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate 
Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, green loans 
or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds). 
5.5 mBank confirms that it has tracked the share of the Net Proceeds 
used for financing and refinancing. 
5.6 mBank’s Green Bond Framework documents that the Net Proceeds 
are tracked following a formal internal process.  
5.7 mBank has confirmed that  the Net Proceeds raised are no greater 
than the total investment exposure or debt obligation to the 
Nominated Projects & Assets which are owned or financed by the 
Issuer. 
5.8 N/A  
5.9 N/A  
None 
Process for 
Evaluation and 
Selection of 
Projects & 
Assets  
6.1 mBank’s Green Bond Framework documents a decision -making 
process which it uses to determine the continuing eligibility of the 
Nominated Projects. This includes, without limitation: 
6.1.1 A statement on the climate -related objectives of the green 
bond; 
6.1.2 How the climate -related objectives of the green bond  are 
positioned within the context of the mBank’s overarching 
objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to 
environmental sustainability; 
6.1.3 mBank’s rationale for issuing the green bond; 
6.1.4 A process to determine whether the Nominated Project meet 
the eligibility requirements specified in the Climate Bonds 
Standard; 
6.1.5 Other information provided by mBank as described in Clause  
2.2 
None 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
7 
Management 
of Proceeds 
7.1 mBank’s confirmation that the  Net Proceeds of the bond were 
credited to a sub account, moved to a sub -portfolio or otherwise 
identified by mBank in an appropriate manner, and documented. 
7.2 mBank confirmed that it maintained an earmarking process to 
manage and account for allocation of Net Proceeds to the 
Nominated Projects  
7.3 mBank has confirmed that  while the financing remained 
outstanding, the balance of the tracked Net Proceeds were reduced 
by amounts allocated to Nominated Projects. Pending allocation, 
the Net Proceeds were invested in its liquidity portfolio in money 
market instruments. 
None 
Reporting – 
Post-issuance 
8.1. mBank is committed to preparing an Update Report at least annually 
while the financing remains outstanding. 
8.1.2 The Update Report will be made available to the lenders and to 
the Climate Bonds Standard Board. 
8.1.3 mBank will provide an Update Report to the lenders on a timely 
basis in case of material developments 
None 
 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
8 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2024 Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of 
Sustainalytics and/or content providers, and may be made available to third parties only in the form 
and format disclosed by Sustainalytics. They are not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use 
by India-based clients or users and their distribution to Indian resident individuals or entities is not 
permitted. 
They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) shall not be considered as being a 
statement, representation, warranty or argument either in favor or against the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements that the issuer has made available to Sustainalytics for 
the purpose of this deliverable, in light of the circumstances under which such facts or statements 
have been presented; (2) do not constitute an endorsement of any product , project, investment 
strategy or consideration of any particular environmental, social or governance related issues as part 
of any investment strategy; (3) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice, or a prospectus, 
nor represent an “expert opinion” or “negative assurance letter” as these terms are commonly 
understood or defined by any applicable legislation; (4) are not part of any offering and do not 
constitute an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of 
business transactions; (5) do not  represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, 
financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; (6) are not a substitute for professional advice; (7) 
past performance is no guarantee of future results; (8) have not been submitted to, nor received 
approval from, any relevant regulatory body; (9) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering 
disclosure, unless otherwise agreed in writing. 
These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to 
their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up -to-datedness or fitness for a particular purpose 
Sustainalytics has not independently verified any such info rmation or data. The deliverables are 
provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics’ opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. 
Sustainalytics does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the statements in the 
deliverable to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations which may occur after the date 
of the opinion or any statements included in the opinion. Neither Sustainalytics/Morningstar nor their 
content providers accept any liability from the use of the informatio n, data or opinions contained 
herein or for actions of third parties in respect to this information, in any manner whatsoever, except 
where explicitly required by law. Sustainalytics does not assume any responsibility shall the bond 
default. Any reference to content providers’ names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their 
ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our 
content providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, 
visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 
Sustainalytics may receive compensation for its ratings, opinions and other deliverables, from, 
among others, issuers, insurers, guarantors and/or underwriters of debt securities, or investors, via 
different business units. Sustainalytics believes it has p ut in place appropriate measures designed 
to safeguard the objectivity and independence of its opinions. For more information, visit Governance 
Documents or contact compliance@sustainalytics.com.  
This deliverable, in particular the images, text and graphics contained therein, and the layout and 
company logo of Sustainalytics are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof 
shall require express prior written consent. Use shall be deemed to refer in particular to the copying 
or duplication of the opinion wholly or in part, the distribution of the opinion, either free of charge or 
against payment, or the exploitation of this opinion in any other conceivable manner. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
mBank S.A. Group  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2024  
 
9 
About Morningstar Sustainalytics 
Morningstar Sustainalytics is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors 
around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. 
For more than 30 years, the firm has been at the forefront of  developing high-quality, innovative 
solutions to meet the evolving needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with hundreds 
of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds, which incorporate ESG and corporate 
governance information and  assessments into their investment processes. Sustainalytics also 
works with hundreds of companies and their financial intermediaries to help them consider 
sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. For more information, visit 
www.sustainalytics.com.