Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VERIFIER’S REPORT 
 
 
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District  
General Obligation Sewerage System Refunding Bonds 
Series 2020D (Green Bonds) – “Series 2020D Green Bonds” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for: Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District 
 
June 3, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
+1 541.399.6286          info@kestrelverifiers.com            www.kestrelverifiers.com          2700 Wells Drive, Hood River, OR 97031  

 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-2 
VERIFIER’S REPORT 
 
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District General Obligation Sewerage System Refunding 
Bonds, Series 2020D (Green Bonds) 
 (“Series 2020D Green Bonds”)  
 
Issuer: Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District 
Project: Capital Improvements 
Green Category: Water Infrastructure 
Location: 200 Waterfront Place, City of West Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA 
Financing value: Approximately $28 million* 
Evaluation Date:  June 3, 2020 
Lead Verifier: Evan Smith, M.S. 
 
CONTENTS 
Transaction Overview ................................................................................................................................... 3 
About the Issuer ............................................................................................................................................ 3 
About the Verification Engagement ............................................................................................................. 4 
MMSD’s Responsibilities for Climate Bonds Verification ......................................................................... 4 
Verifier’s Responsibilities .......................................................................................................................... 4 
Relevant Climate Bonds Sector Criteria and Other Standards .................................................................. 4 
Independence and Quality Control ........................................................................................................... 4 
Assurance Approach ................................................................................................................................. 5 
Conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard .......................................................................................... 5 
Project Description .................................................................................................................................... 5 
Alignment with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ............................................................ 8 
Use of Proceeds ........................................................................................................................................ 8 
Project Evaluation and Selection .............................................................................................................. 9 
Management of Proceeds ......................................................................................................................... 9 
Reporting ................................................................................................................................................ 10 
Opinion ........................................................................................................................................................ 11 
 
Appendix A. Climate Bonds Standard Water Infrastructure Adaptation & Resilience Scorecard 
 
 
 
* The financed amount is subject to change until the Guaranteed Maximum Price is finalized and the bonds are sold. However, 
the total amount financed shall not exceed $28 million. 
  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-3 
TRANSACTION OVERVIEW  
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District (MMSD)  plans to issue  approximately $28 million in 
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District General Obligation Sewerage System Refunding Bonds, Series 
2020D (Green Bonds) (“Series 2020D Green Bonds”). 
MMSD proposes refunding capital improvements from the General Obligation Sewerage System Bonds , 
Series 2010L (Taxable Build America Bonds -Direct Payment) (“Series 2010L Build America Bonds”)  with 
Certified Climate Bonds, an internationally accepted green bond standard. MMSD’s 2020D Bonds will pay 
for the remaining called portion of the Series 2010L Bonds. This original financing involves a variety of 
capital projects from 2010-2014, part of the 2010 -2020 Capital Improvement Plan,  ranging from water 
reclamation facilities to conveyance and storage system upgrades, and green infrastructure to reduce 
flooding and stormwater runoff. The capital improvements will result in increased operational efficiency, 
reduced energy use, improved sanitation services, reduced flooding, and improved water quality  in the 
greater Milwaukee, Wisconsin area. 
This Verifier’s Report reflects Kestrel Verifier s’ view of MMSD’s projects and financing, allocation and 
oversight, and conformance of the bonds with the Climate Bonds Standard (V3.0), and the  Water 
Infrastructure sector criteria. In our opinion, the Series 2020D Green Bonds to be issued by MMSD  are 
completely aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard and the Water Infrastructure criteria. 
ABOUT THE ISSUER 
The Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District (M MSD or the District ) provides sewerage services in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. MMSD captures and treats 98.5% of the wastewater generated across the service 
area along the southwestern shore of Lake Michigan. MMSD ranks among the largest sewerage utilities 
in the country, encompassing a service area of nearly 411 square miles , serving 28 municipalities with a 
total population of about 1.1 million people.   
MMSD’s primary mission  is to protect public health and the environment through world -class, cost-
effective water resource management, leadership, and partnership . MMSD operates and maintains an 
extensive array of facilities. The organization’s two water reclamation facilities —Jones Island and South 
Shore, with a combined maximum plant capacity of 630 million gallons daily—are the centers of MMSD’s 
services. 
MMSD has set aggressive goals to improve its environmental impact and sustainability through the MMSD 
2035 Vision , a plan  which envisions a healthier Milwaukee region and a cleaner Lake Michigan 
accomplished through leadership in attaining zero sewage overflows, zero basement sewage backups, 
and improved storm water management . The District also adopted an Urban Biodiversity Plan, a 
Sustainability Plan, an Energy Plan, and a Resilience Plan. The organization has an updated GHG Emissions 
Inventory and a robust Climate Change Vulnerability Analysis conducted in 2014.  MMSD has a laudable 
goal to reduce its carbon footprint by 90% from baseline conditions by 2035. 
MMSD intends to use the proceeds  of the Series 2020D Green Bonds exclusively to refund the Series 
2010L Build America Bonds  and the associated  capital improvement projects, capitalized interest and 
financing costs, which are described more fully later in this report.  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-4 
ABOUT THE VERIFICATION ENGAGEMENT 
MMSD engaged Kestrel Verifiers to provide a pre-issuance, independent verification on the alignment of 
the Series 2020D Green Bonds with the Climate Bonds Standard and Certification Scheme—which includes 
the Climate Bonds Standard (V3.0) and Water Infrastructure sector criteria. The Series 2020D Bonds are 
the first to be issued under MMSD’s Programmatic Certification Scheme. The Climate Bonds Initiative (the 
“CBI”) administers the standard and sector criteria.  
Kestrel Verifiers is a Climate Bonds Initiative Approved Verifier. The Kestrel review team included a water 
resources engineer and other environmental scientists . We performed a Reasonable Assurance 
engagement for MMSD’s Series 2020D Green Bonds to provide an independent verification as to whether 
the subject matter meets, in all material respects, the relevant criteria, defined later. Additionally, Kestrel 
Verifiers examined alignment of the Series 2020D Gree n Bonds with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (“SDGs”).  
For this engagement, Kestrel Verifiers reviewed MMSD ’s green bond framework  and relevant plans,  
examined public and non -public information, and interviewed members of MMSD ’s management and 
finance teams. Our goal was to understand sustainability impacts of the business, the planned use of 
proceeds, procedures for managing proceeds, and plans and prac tices for reporting. This document 
contains Kestrel’s opinion of the Series 2020D Green Bonds. 
MMSD’s Responsibilities for Climate Bonds Verification 
MMSD is responsible for providing detailed information and documents relating to: 
• the details of the capital improvements and the corresponding project selection process; 
• record keeping and internal controls;  
• how the projects meet the criteria; and 
• reporting and procedures for reporting on the Series 2020D Green Bonds. 
Verifier’s Responsibilities 
Kestrel Verifiers’ responsibilities for confirming alignment of the Series 2020D Green Bonds  with the 
Climate Bonds Standard and Water Infrastructure criteria include:  
• assess and certify MMSD ’s internal processes and controls , including s election process for 
projects and assets, internal tracking of proceeds, and the allocation system for funds; 
• assess policies and procedures established by MMSD, including reporting;  
• assess the readiness of MMSD to meet the Climate Bonds Standard ( V3.0) and Water 
Infrastructure sector criteria; and 
• express a Reasonable Assurance conclusion. 
Relevant Climate Bonds Sector Criteria and Other Standards 
The Series 2020D Green Bonds align with the Climate Bond Initiative’s Climate Bonds Standard (V3.0) and 
Water Infrastructure criteria.  
  
Independence and Quality Control 
Kestrel Verifiers is providing an independent opinion on the conformance of these Series 2020D Green 
Bonds with the Water Infrastructure  criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard. For almost twenty years, 
Kestrel has worked at the intersection of finance and sustainability, helping clients to advance water, 

 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-5 
energy, and environmental projects. Kestrel relies on our experienced team of dedicated profess ionals, 
our qualified judgment , and our attention to detail to ensure the highest quality assessment and 
verification. Kestrel Verifiers certifies that there is no affiliation, involvement, financial or non -financial 
interest in the issuer or the projects discussed. Language in the offering disclosure supersedes any 
language included in this Verifier’s Report. 
Assurance Approach 
Kestrel Verifiers’ responsibility was to conduct a Reasonable Assurance engagement to determine 
whether MMSD’s Series 2020D Green Bonds met, in all material respects, the requirements of the Climate 
Bonds Standard. Our reasonable assurance was conducted in accordance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard (V3.0) and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.  Reasonable Assurance 
engagements offer a high level of scrutiny over the bond -financed activities and allow the Verifier to 
positively conclude whether those activities meet the specified criteria. 
Kestrel Verifiers has relied on information provided by MMSD . There are inherent limitations in 
performing assurance, and fraud, error or non -compliance may occur and not be detected. Kestrel 
Verifiers is not responsible or liable for any opinions, findings or conclusions that are incorrect. Our 
assurance is limited to MMSD’s policies and procedures in place as of June 3, 2020, ahead of the issuance 
of the Series 2020D Green Bonds . The distribution and use of this assurance report are  at the sole 
discretion of MMSD. Kestrel Verifiers does not accept or assume any responsibility for distribution to any 
other person or organization. 
CONFORMANCE WITH THE CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD 
Project Description 
The Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District General Obligation Sewerage System Refunding Bonds , 
Series 2020D (Green Bonds), herein referred to as the “Series 2020D Green Bonds” is MMSD’s second 
green bond.  The Series 2020D Green Bonds  will refund financing fo r MMSD’s 2010-2014 capital 
improvements, which are described in Appendix A of the Green Bond Framework and fall in these general 
categories: 
• Jones Island Water Reclamation Facility 
• South Shore Water Reclamation Facility 
• Interplant Pipeline 
• Conveyance 
• Inline Storage System 
• Watercourse and Flood Management 
• Laboratory Equipment 
• Facilities Planning 
 
Project Highlights: 
MMSD has multiple innovative projects and progressive approaches to water resource management 
that have been funded in whole or in part with bonds previously issued by MMSD. 
. 
 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-6 
Water Reclamation Facility Upgrades: Both the Jones Island and South Shore Water Reclamation Facilities 
required equipment upgrades and replacements to ensure that MMSD would continue to meet its high 
standards for water reclamation. These projects reduced energy use and improved operational efficiency, 
and included: 
• Secondary Clarifier Drive Replacement 
• Dewatering & Drying Belt Variable-frequency Drive Replacement 
• Gas Turbine Replacement 
• Aeration Control System Upgrade 
• Improvements to the Central Control System 
• Sewer System Capacity Improvements 
• Aeration Basin Diffuser Replacement 
• Computer Room HVAC Replacement 
• SCADA Back-up Communications Systems 
Watershed Restoration Projects: MMSD works to provide environmentally responsible flood protection 
and has discretionary authority to make improvements to watercourses contained in the six watersheds 
within their service area. Flood abatement projects, sediment transport studies, and stream restoration 
were all part of the capital improvements funded by the Series 2010L Build America Bonds. These projects  
help to improve community health and the natural environment by reducing the risk of flooding. 
Greenseams® Natural Areas Program  and Green Infrastructure : The Series 2020L Build America Bonds 
partially funded the District’s Greenseams ® project. Greenseams® is an innovative flood management 
program that permanently protects key lands containing water- absorbing soils, and sequesters carbon. 
MMSD has implemented this program to help municipalities  in the District meet their commitments to 
address stormwater runoff and improve water quality.  Green infrastructure also helps reduce inflows to 
the MMSD system.  Green infrastructure projects are a high priority for the District going forward due to 
their multiple community benefi ts that align with the District’s various sustainability plans.  The District 
plans to implement Phase 2 of the Greenseams Program in the future, additional Community Based Green 
Infrastructure Projects, and many other watercourse and flood management projects. 
 
Milorganite® Production : MMSD has been recycling  biosolids since 1926 to make a nutrient -rich 
byproduct that is transformed into a highly effective fertilizer and sold commercially. The District produces 
Milorganite®—a premier organic fertilizer which is all-natural, pesticide-free, and free of mined resources 
and synthetics. Milorganite production is currently the most cost -effective solution for disposal of 
biosolids from the Jones Island and South Shore Water Reclamation Facilities , and  MMSD plans to 
continue to improve these facilities in the future.  
 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-7 
Sector Criteria 
Water Infrastructure Criteria 
MMSD’s bond-financed activities align with the Water Infrastructure Criteria under the Asset Class “Water 
Treatment/Installation or upgrade of water treatment infrastructure ” as shown in Figure 1 . An orange 
circle indicates that the eligibility of these assets or projects is conditional on meeting  specific 
requirements per the Mitigation and/or Adaptation and Resilience requirements of the Criteria. 
 
Figure 1. Eligible Asset Types 
Source: Climate Bonds Standard – Water Infrastructure Criteria, April 2018, Table I  
 
• Water Infrastructure Mitigation Requirements  
As per CBI,  “The Mitigation Component of the Water Infrastructure Criteria is intended to provide 
transparency over the impact that the use of proceeds will have on GHG emissions and the degree of 
mitigation that will be delivered over the operational lifetime of the project or asset. For use of 
proceeds subject to a Mitigation Assessment as indicated by an orange circle, they are eligible for 
certification only if: No net GHG emissions impact is expected, and the issuer discloses the justification 
for this decision.” 
It is Kestrel Verifiers’ opinion that there will be no net increase in GHG emissions as a result of financed 
projects. MMSD’s Green Bond Framework Appendix A  shows many projects that  will result in  
increased operational and energy efficiency. Since the treatment capacity remains the same, n o net 
GHG emissions increase is expected. Furthermore, addition of natural areas and open space through 
the Greenseams Program, can be seen as a net negative for GHG emissions impact.  
• Water Infrastructure Adaptation and Resilience Requirements  
As per CBI, “The Adaptation & Resilience Component of the Water Infrastructure Criteria is intended 
to provide transparency over the asset’s resilience to climate change as well as its impact on other 
stakeholders’ resilience to climate change. Such stakeholder impacts include their access to water in 
sufficient quantity and sufficient quality. From this perspective, ecosystems are also conside red a 
stakeholder.” 
Assets and projects that are demarcated with an orange circle in the Adaptation and Resilience 
column of Figure 1 and have an expected or remaining operational lifespan of more than 20 years are 
subject to a Vulnerability Assessment / A daptation Plan Evaluation. Figure 2 shows the CBI decision 
tree for this component of the criteria. 

 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-8 
 
Figure 2. Decision tree for the Adaptation & Resilience component of the Water 
Infrastructure Criteria 
Source: CBI Water Infrastructure Criteria, April 2018, Figure 1. 
 
As the operational  life for the wastewater treatment plants and related infrastructure  is greater than 
20 years, a vulnerability assessment was conducted. This is attached in Appendix A of this Verifier’s 
Report. MMSD scored 78 points out of 100  points, exceeding the threshold of 60% in each category as 
required for certification. This is shown in the summary table in Figure 2. 
Alignment with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
In a related area, and recognized by MMSD, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by all 
United Nations member states in 2015 provides “a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people 
and the planet.” The United Nations’ Agenda describes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  As 
shown in MMSD’s framework and operations, the goals and practices of MMSD align with many of the 
SDGs. For the purposes of the  Series 2020D Green Bonds offering, the projects align most closely with 
three SDGs: 
 
SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation, which includes targets to achieve access to adequate and 
equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and improve water quality by reducing pollution, 
eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials.  
 
SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities,  which includes targets to make cities and human 
settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. 
 
SDG 13: Climate Action,  which includes targets to take urgent action to combat climate change 
and its impacts. 
Use of Proceeds 
The Series 2020D Green Bonds will be used to refund the Series 2010L Build America Bonds that funded 
the capital improvements listed in Appendix A  of MMSD’s Green Bond Framework , which are eligible 

 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-9 
green projects as defined by the Climate Bonds Initiative’s Standard and Certification Scheme ( Water 
Infrastructure criteria).  
Project Evaluation and Selection  
MMSD believes in transparency to both constituents and investors regarding its process for project 
evaluation and selection. It is part of MMSD’s approval process to ensure that all of its financed activities 
comply with internal environmental and social directives. All of MMSD’s environmental and social policies 
and related reports can be found at: www.mmsd.com/what-we-do/sustainability 
In addition to meeting MMSD’s long-term needs, the Series 2020D Green Bonds were used for projects 
that address and meet the following objectives: 
1. Support MMSD’s mission to protect public health and the environment through world -class, 
cost-effective water resource management, leadership, and partnership. 
2. Address resilience and sustainability issues  in the City of Milwaukee  through efforts such as 
prioritizing green infrastructure and urban biodiversity, incorporating renewable energy 
solutions, and building energy efficiency into capital improvements. 
3. By certifying the Bonds as Climate Bonds in the category of Water Infrastructure, MMSD 
hopes to inform investors of the environmentally beneficial and climate-aligned aspects of 
projects and the District’s responsible management of water resources, cognizant of climate 
change. 
MMSD utilizes a robust and transparent annual process to prioritize capital improvements  for financing, 
and the District  maintains long -range financing plans for its Operation and Maintenance and Capital 
Projects budgets. The Strategic Plan for FY 2019-2021 identifies the project list, presented in Appendix A 
of MMSD’s Green Bond Framework , as a priority for bond financing.  Projects selected for financing are 
also reviewed against MMSD’s Environment Statement.   
Projects to be financed are evaluated and selected based on:  
a) Alignment with the current Strategic Plan, the Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) for the 
Milwaukee River Basin, and the MMSD 2035 Vision;  
b) Business case studies and community benefits (identify need, options, and preferred solution); 
c) A thorough vetting process which includes stakeholder consultation; and 
d) Review by Budget Staff and final approval by Executive Director and Commissioners.   
MMSD staff compiles project recommendations which are presented to the Operations Committee 
annually. The Operations Committee reviews project details and operating procedures.  
As an organization, MMSD is committed to public health and the environment through world-class, cost-
effective wastewater treatment. MMSD considers the local and regional impacts of its practices. MMSD’s 
guiding beliefs associated with sustainability support the vision of reducing environmental impacts. The 
projects to be financed with the Series 2020D Green Bonds meet this vision and subsequent criteria.  
Management of Proceeds  
MMSD’s management of proceeds follows Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and Government 
Finance Officers Association (GFOA) recommendations for best practices. Net proceeds will be tracked by 
MMSD’s Finance team and 100% of funds will be allocated to refunding capitalized interest and financing 
costs.  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-10 
Proceeds from Green Bonds will be specifically directed to pay the costs of refunding the remaining called 
portion of the Series 2010L Build America Bonds  and other related expenses necessary for the selected 
green bond-eligible projects. Ensuring that green bond proceeds are allocated only to green designated 
refunding will be the responsibility of MMSD’s Director of Finance, Mickie Pearsall.   
MMSD provides a Comprehensive Annual Financial Statement (CAFR) which is prepared by an 
independent auditor. The Government Finance Officers Association awarded a Certificate of Achievement 
for Excellence in Financial Reporting to the District for its CAFR for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2017. This was the 40th consecutive year that the District has received this prestigious award. 
Reporting  
 
Continuing Disclosures and Voluntary Impact Reporting 
So long as the Series 2020D Green Bonds are outstanding, Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District will 
submit continuing disclosures to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) . This reporting will 
be done annually on the Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA) system operated by the MSRB.  
MMSD will also voluntarily produce an annual report detailing how the Green Bond proceeds were used 
to finance the selected projects, a description of the selected projects, and details of the environmental 
benefits resulting from the projects. MMSD may also voluntarily provide information as to progress 
toward the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Such information will be posted to the 
EMMA system of the Municipal Securities Rul emaking Board, accessible at emma.msrb.org
. This report 
will be posted along with other MMSD filings.  
Within 24 months of the bonds closing, Kestrel Verifiers will provide one post-issuance Update Report to 
the Climate Bonds Initiative . In line with the Climate Bonds Programmatic Certification scheme , Kestrel 
Verifiers will produce an annual report encompassing the entire MMSD Climate Bonds program including 
the Series 2020D Green Bonds and subsequent Climate Bonds in the program. MMSD will also voluntarily 
post these reports on EMMA. 
  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-11 
OPINION 
Based on the Reasonable Assurance procedures  we have conducted, in our opinion, the MMSD  Series 
2020D Green Bonds conform, in all material respects, with the Climate Bonds Standard , and the bond -
financed activities are aligned with the Water Infrastructure  sector specific criteria and United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals 6, 11 and 13.  
MMSD’s vision of a healthier, cleaner, more resilient region is supported with the capital improvements, 
which exceed the requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard.  
It is the opinion of Kestrel Verifiers that MMSD ’s Series 2020D Green Bonds are in complete alignment 
with the Water Infrastructure criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard, and qualify to be Certified Climate 
Bonds. MMSD is demonstrating leadership with the implementation of these beneficial projects. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Evan Smith, Lead Technical Verifier  
Kestrel Verifiers  
June 3, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 20 years Kestrel has been a trusted consultant in environmental finance. Kestrel 
Verifiers, a division of Kestrel 360, Inc. is a Climate Bonds Initiative Approved Verifier 
qualified to verify transactions in all asset classes. Kestrel is a US-based Woman-Owned 
Small Business and a certified Women’s Business Enterprise. 
For more information, visit www.kestrelverifiers.com 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-12 
APPENDIX A. Climate Bonds Standard Water Infrastructure Adaptation & Resilience Scorecard 
 
CRITERIA: The project must score at least 60% of the maximum potential score in all parts of the 
Scorecard. Section 4 only needs to be completed for “Nature Based and Hybrid Infrastructure” only 
(see Criteria for detail) 
 
 
Vulnerability Assessment SECTION 1: ALLOCATION 
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
1.1 
Are there accountability mechanisms in 
place for the management of water 
allocation that are effective at a sub -basin 
and/or basin scale?  
1 1 Disclosure 
There are several plans outlining management of water the most 
relevant and adopted internationally is the Great Lakes Compact  
• https://dnr.wi.gov/topic/GreatLakes/documents/Congress_Compact
_Consent.pdf 
 
• https://www.sewrpc.org/SEWRPC/Environment/RegionalWaterSuppl
yPlan.htm  
 
Regional Water Supply Plan: 
In 1979, the Commission completed and adopted a regional water 
quality management plan. The plan was designed, in part, to meet the 
Congressional mandate that the waters of the United States be made 
“fishable and swimmable” to the extent practical. Continued eligibility of 
local units of government for Federal and State loans and grants in 
partial support of sewerage system development and redevelopment;  
 
From the last quarter of 2003 through December 2007, SEWRPC 
prepared an update of the regional water quality management plan for 
the Greater Milwaukee Watersheds and was amended in “ 2013-A 
REGIONAL WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN UPDATE FOR THE 
GREATER MILWAUKEE WATERSHEDS”-Amended May 2013 
 
https://dnr.wi.gov/topic/WaterUse/compact.html Great Lakes Compact  
1.2 
Are the following factors taken into 
account in the definition of the available 
resource pool?  
 
a) Non-consumptive  uses (e.g., 
navigation, hydroelectricity  
 
b) Environmental flow  requirements  
 
c) Dry season minimum flow  requirements  
 
d) Return flows (how much water should 
be returned to the resource pool, after 
use) 
 
e) Inter-annual and inter -seasonal 
variability 
 
f) Connectivity with other water  bodies 
 
g) Climate change  impacts 
7 5 Evidence 
As MMSD only receives water used, their plan does not determine 
allocation, however they are subject to: 
 
A) WQ pg. 383 addresses navigation and dam regulation in the plan as 
does the Great Lakes Compact 
B)  
C)  
D) City of Waukesha has return flow plan through MMSD 
http://www.waukesha-
water.com/downloads/4_City_of_Waukesha_Return_Flow_Plan.pd
f 
E) Pp. 60-61 of water supply plan looks at seasonal temperature and 
precipitation 
F) Yes, connectivity of Lake Michigan with other Lakes and St. 
Lawrence is heavily discussed 
G) Discussed and considered as part of adapting plans in the future  
1.3 
Are arrangements  in place to 
accommodate  the potentially adverse 
impacts of climate change on the resource 
pool? (E.g. using best available science to 
plan for future changes in availability, 
undertaking periodic monitoring and 
updating of available pool.)  
1 1 Evidence 
Pg. 377 Water Supply and pg. 854 Water Quality and on the amendment 
discusses Climate Change and impacts on resource pool, p g. 856 the 
sections of the plan updated to accommodate changes  
 
https://www.sewrpc.org/SEWRPC/Environment/ClimateChange.htm  
Wisconsin Initiative on Climate Change 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-13 
Vulnerability Assessment SECTION 1: ALLOCATION 
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
1.4 
Is there a distinction between the 
allocation regimes used in “normal” times 
and in times of “extreme/severe” water 
shortage? 
1 1 Evidence Pg. 284 Water Quality Management Plan discusses water quality changes in 
wet and dry weather and outflows consistent with this.  
1.5 
Are there plans to define “exceptional” 
circumstances, such as an extended 
drought, that influence the allocation 
regime? (E.g., triggers water use 
restrictions, reduction in allocations 
according to pre -defined priority uses, 
suspension of the regime plan, etc.)  
1 1 Evidence 
There are triggers during extreme wet events to discharge more under 
blending practices. Pg. 62 water supply plan defines drought and pg . 131 
discusses limitations during these times 
1.6 
For international / trans boundary basins, 
is there a legal mechanism in place to 
define and enforce water basin allocation 
agreements?  
1 1 Disclosure 
Pg. 357 Water Supply Plan describes Water Resources Development Act 
that enforces Lake Michigan water allocations 
 
Great Lakes Compact includes Canadian Premier  
1.7 
Are water delivery agreements defined on 
the basis of actual in situ seasonal / annual 
availability instead of volumetric or 
otherwise inflexible mechanisms?  
1 1 Evidence 
Lake Michigan water levels are consistent seasonally, however new 
pumping or diversions are subject to seasonal or annual variations when 
there are lower lake water levels. Water Supply Plan  
1.8 
Has a formal environmental flows (e-  
flows)/sustainable diversion limits or other 
environmental allocation been defined for 
the relevant sub- basin or basin? (If there is 
a pre-existing plan, then has the 
environmental flows program been 
updated to account for the new project?)  
1 1 Evidence 
There is a ban on diversions out of the basin with limited exceptions with 
the Great Lakes Compact, and all water is returned to the Lake. The 
program has not been updated to account for the project, but amounts will 
not be affected. 
1.9 
Have designated environmental flows / 
allocation programs been assured / 
implemented?  
1 1 Evidence or   
Disclosure Yes, Great Lakes Compact is implemented and followed for diversions  
1.1
0
 
Has a mechanism been defined to update 
the environmental flows plan periodically 
(e.g., every 5 to 10 years) in order to 
account for changes in allocation, water 
timing, and water availability?  
1 1 Evidence 
Pg. 50 Great Lakes Compact update every 5 years or each time the 
incremental Basin Water losses reach 50 million gallons per day average in 
any 90-day period  
1.1
1
 
Is the amount of water available for 
consumptive use in the resource pool 
linked to a public planning document?  
(E.g., a river basin management plan or 
another planning document – please 
indicate) 
1 1 Evidence 
SEWRPC Regional Water Supply Plan and shown in 
https://www.sewrpc.org/SEWRPCFiles/Environment/watersupply/2011 -
05-24-RWSP-presentation-to-wauk-co-board-of-supervisors.pdf update 
1.1
2
 
If present, is the river basin plan a 
statutory instrument that must be 
followed rather than a guiding document?  
1 1 Disclosure Yes, signed by U.S. Congress and is statutory law. 
Total Allocation Score  16 /18   
Eligibility Criterion 1 passed/not passed   89 %   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-14 
 
Vulnerability Assessment SECTION 2: Governance 
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
2.1 
Have water entitlements  been defined according 
to one of the following?  
 Purpose that water may be used for 
 Maximum area that may be  irrigated 
 Maximum volume that may be taken in a 
nominated period 
 Proportion of any water allocated to  a defined 
resource pool  
1 1 Disclosure 
Great Lakes Compact gives limits of withdrawal of 100,000 
gallons per day or greater average over any 90-day period 
or new or Increased Consumptive Use of 5 million gallons 
per day or greater average over any 90-day period. 
2.2 
Is the surface water system currently considered to be 
neither over allocated nor over -used? N.B. Over -
allocated would be if e.g. current use is within 
sustainable limits but there would be a problem if all 
legally approved entitlements to abstract water were 
used. Over-used would be if existing abstractions 
exceed the estimated proportion of the resource that 
can be taken on a sustainable basis.  
1 1 Evidence Not considered either over-used or over-allocated and 
new user and diversions outside the lake are prohibited  
2.3 
If monitored and the investment uses groundwater, is 
the groundwater water system currently considered to 
be neither over - allocated nor over -used?  
 
N.B. Over-allocated would be if e.g. current use is within 
sustainable limits but there would be a problem if all 
legally approved entitlements to abstract water were 
used. Over-used would be if existing abstractions exceed 
the estimated proportion  of the resource that can be 
taken on a sustainable basis.  
1 1 Evidence 
SEWRPC considers the Deep Sandstone Aquifer overused, 
but majority of water supply is coming from the great 
lakes and the greater area groundwater is not considered 
over-allocated. 
http://www.sewrpc.org/SEWRPCFiles/Environment/water
supply/2005-09-19_water_supply_planni.pdf 
2.4 Is there a limit to the proportion (e.g. percentage) of 
water that can be abstracted?  1 0 Evidence No regulations stating % of Lake Michigan 
2.5 
Are governance arrangements in place for dealing  with 
exceptional circumstances  (such as drought, floods, or 
severe pollution events), especially around coordinated 
infrastructure operations?  
1 1 Disclosure 
Pp.9 and 10 of 
http://docs.legis.wisconsin.gov/statutes/statutes/281.pdf  
Wisconsin legislation on great lakes compact put in place 
arrangements for flooding 
2.6 
Is there a process for re -evaluating recent decadal 
trends in seasonal precipitation and flow OR recharge 
regime, in order to evaluate “normal” baseline 
conditions? 
1 
1 Evidence Pg. 50 Great Lakes compact addresses climate change 
impacts every 5 years and changes to supply regime  
2.7 Is there a formal process for dealing with new entrants?  1 1 Disclosure Yes, Great Lakes Compact has formal process on new 
applicants and proposals 
2.8 For existing entitlements,  is there a formal process  for 
increasing, varying, or adjusted use(s)?  1 1 Disclosure 
Yes, pg. 34 outlines all new or increased diversions are 
prohibited except in outlined in the Compact for 
straddling communities 
2.9 
Is there policy coherence across sectors (agriculture, 
energy, environment, urban) that affect water resources 
allocation, such as a regional, national, or basin- wide 
Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) plan?  
1 1 Evidence 
The compact is the defining document for managing the 
international Water Resource and it considers urban, 
agriculture, and environment. Pg. 10 of the Compact 
2.10 Are obligations for return flows and discharges specified 
and enforced?  
1 1 Disclosure 
Return flows are discussed in water supply plans and great 
lakes compact all flows are required to be returned after 
use 
2.11 
Is there a mechanism to address impacts from users 
who are not required to hold a water entitlement but 
can still take water from the resource pool?  
1 1 Disclosure No users outside of compact are entitled to diversions 
from Lake Michigan 
2.12 
Is there a pre-defined set of priority uses within the 
resource pool? (E.g., according to or in addition to an 
allocation regime) 
1 0 Disclosure Not readily available 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-15 
Vulnerability Assessment SECTION 2: Governance 
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
2.13 
If there are new entrants and/if entitlement holders 
want to increase the volume of water they use in the 
resource pool and the catchment is open, are these 
entitlements conditional on either assessment of third 
party impacts, an Environmental Impact Assessme nt 
(EIA) or an existing user(s) forgoing use?  
1 1 Evidence 
Pg. 5 Environmentally Sound and Economically Feasible 
Water Conservation Measures that include addressing 
environmental impact (does not specify EIA) i) are 
environmentally sound, ii) reflect best practices applicable 
to the water use sector, iii) are technically feasible and 
available, iv) are economically feasible and cost effective 
based on an analysis that considers direct and avoided 
economic and environmental costs and v) consider the 
particular facilities and processes involved, taking into 
account the environmental impact, age of equipment and 
facilities involved, the processes employed, energy 
impacts and other appropriate factors. 
2.14 Are withdrawals monitored, with clear and legally 
robust sanctions?  1 1 Evidence Yes, Great Lakes Compact requires each party to monitor 
withdrawals pg. 26 
2.15 Are there conflict resolution mechanisms in place?  1 1 Disclosure Yes, pg. 54 dispute resolution in Great Lakes Compact 
Total Governance Score  13 /15   
Eligibility Criterion 2 passed / not passed  87 %   
 
 
 
Vulnerability Assessment SECTION 3: TECHNICAL DIAGNOSTICS  
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
1 
Does a water resources model of the proposed 
investment and ecosystem (or proposed modifications 
to existing investment and ecosystem) exist? Specify 
model types, such as WEAP, SWAT, RIBASIM, USACE 
applications). Scale should be at least sub-basin. 
1 1 Evidence 
Regional groundwater model created with USGS and 
SEWRPC 
http://www.sewrpc.org/SEWRPCFiles/Publications/TechR
ep/tr-041_aquifer_simulation_model.pdf 
 
USACE HEC-RAS model developed by SEWRPC for 
hydraulic and flood analysis 
http://www.sewrpc.org/SEWRPCFiles/Publications/mr/m
r-172-milw-river-watercourse-system-plan.pdf 
 
NOAA Great Lakes 
https://www.glerl.noaa.gov/res/Programs/ipemf/GLCFS_
nextgen.html 
 
A Lake Michigan PRMS model was constructed over the 
entire Lake Michigan Basin area. The model was 
constructed and parameterized using available 
geographic information system (GIS) datasets, and 
calibrated using available observed (measured) 
streamflow, solar radiation, and potential 
evapotranspiration data. Four different emissions 
scenarios were used. 
3.2 
Can the system model the response of the managed 
water system to varied hydrologic inputs and varied 
climate conditions?
 
1 1 Evidence 
Considers varied hydrologic conditions and climatic 
variability but does not account for progressive climate 
change 
 
Pg. 54 Milwaukee watercourse system plan  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-16 
Vulnerability Assessment SECTION 3: TECHNICAL DIAGNOSTICS  
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
3.3 
Are environmental performance limits (ecosystem, 
species, ecological community) and/or ecosystem 
services specified?  
1 1 Evidence 
EcoDyn modeling consists of nowcasts and scenario-
based forecasts to predict the effects of invasive species, 
climate, nutrient loadings, and meteorology on Great 
Lakes food webs, fish
eries productivity, and water quality. 
Data, observations and related process studies are used 
in ecosystem models to forecast the effects of stressors 
and management options. Part of NOAA GLCFS 
https://www.glerl.noaa.gov/res/Programs/eco_dyn/eco_
dyn.html 
3.4 Can these performance  limits be defined and quantified  using the water resources model?  1 0 Evidence No 
3.5 Have these limits been defined based on expert knowledge and/or scientific analysis?  1 1 Evidence Yes, linked to long-term ecological observations, targeted 
fundamental research on ecological processes  
3.6 Are these performance limits linked to infrastructure 
operating parameters?
 1 0 Evidence No 
3.7 Are these limits linked to an environmental flows 
regime?
 1 0 Evidence No 
3.8 For new projects, is there an ecological baseline 
evaluation describing the pre -impact state? 1 0 Evidence No 
3.9 
For rehabilitation / reoperation projects, is there an 
ecological baseline evaluation available before the 
projects was developed?
 
1 0 Evidence No 
3.10 
Has there been an analysis that details impacts  related 
to infrastructure construction and operation that has 
been provided?  
1 0 Evidence No 
3.11 
Are lost species and/or lost or modified ecosystem  
functions specified for restoration in the 
environmental  evaluation?  
1 1 Evidence 
Suggestions including mitigating water storage of water 
during wet years for use during drier years, which in turn 
provides additional resiliency to the associated aquatic 
ecosystems. Pg. 67 PRMS USGS Model Lake Michigan 
3.12 
Have regional protected areas / nature reserves been 
included in the analysis for impacts from the 
investment asset and future climate impacts?  
1 0 Evidence No 
3.13 
Does the model include analysis of regression 
relationships between climate parameters and flow 
conditions using time series of historical climate and 
stream flow data?  
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, using streamflow data and SPARROW model 
regression analysis pg. 68 PRMS USGS Model 
3.14 
Does the model include climate information from a 
multi modal ensemble of climate projections (eg from 
the Climate Wizard or the World Bank’s Climate Portal) 
to assess the likelihood of climate risks for the 
specified investment horizons (s)?  
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, https://pubs.usgs.gov/sir/2014/5175/pdf/sir2014-
5175.pdf USGS Lake Michigan PRMA model includes many 
emissions scenarios and multi-modal climate projections 
to determine Great Lakes conditions 
3.15 
Are changes in the frequency and severity of rare 
weather events such as droughts and floods included?  1 1 Evidence  Yes, pg. 36 PRMS addresses high streamflow and low 
streamflow events 
3.16 
Are sub-annual changes in precipitation seasonality 
included? 1 1 Evidence 
Yes, pg. 22 PRMS seasonal variability in radiation 
evapotranspiration and precipitation 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-17 
Vulnerability Assessment SECTION 3: TECHNICAL DIAGNOSTICS  
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
3.17 
Is GCM climate data complemented with an analysis of 
glacial melt water and sea level rise risks, where 
appropriate (e.g., high or coastal elevation sites)?  
  Evidence N/A 
3.18 
Is paleo-climatic data (e.g., between 10,000 and >1000 
years before present) included?  1 0 Evidence No 
3.19 
Is the number of model runs and duration of model 
runs disclosed?  1 1 Evidence GLOFS is run 4 times/day, 6 hours 
3.20 
Has a sensitivity analysis been performed to 
understand how the asset performance and 
environmental impacts may evolve under shifting 
future flow conditions?  
1 
1 Evidence 
Pg.21 PRMS model addresses sensitivity of model, but 
does not directly discuss the asset 
3.21 
Is directly measured climate data available for more 
than 30 years and incorporated into the water 
resources model? 
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, climate data from 1969-2008 in PRMS model 
3.22 
Has evidence demonstrated that climate change has 
already had an impact on operations and 
environmental targets? Are these impacts specified 
and, to the extent possible, quantified? These impacts 
should be responded to directly in the Adaptation 
Plan. 
1 0 Evidence 
No 
3.23 
Does the evidence suggest that climate change will 
have an impact on operations and environmental 
targets over the operational lifespan? Are these 
impacts specified and, to the extent possible, 
quantified? These impacts should be responded to 
directly in the Adaptation Plan.  
1 1 Evidence 
On the impacts of MMSD and operations of treatment, no 
as the large portion of water supply is pumped and 
MMSD only handles treatment of water in use. 
3.24 
Is there a discussion of the uncertainties associated 
with projected climate impacts on both operations and 
environmental impacts?  
1 1 Evidence 
Pg.22 PRMS discusses uncertainty calculation and p g. 63 
uncertainty in climate scenarios 
Total Governance Score  14 /23   
Eligibility Criterion passed / not passed  61 %   
  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-18 
SECTION 4: NATURE BASED SOLUTIONS 
(to be completed for nature -based solutions and hybrid water infrastructure only)  
Ie this section only needs to be completed if:  
A. As a nature based solution, the asset reflects the intentional use of natural and / or nature based features, processes, and functions, 
as an integral part of addressing a human need and doing so in a manner that protects, manages, restores, and / or enhances natural 
features, processes, and systems in a functioning and sustainable manner.  
B. Where feasible, the asset prioritises natural features over na ture – based features. Such features include the protection, restoration, 
expansion, and / or creation of natural systems and processes as an explicit component of the desired project outcomes.  
SECTION 4.1: SITE INVENTORY 
How well do we understand the systems and processes at the project site?  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
4.1.1 
Is this a “greenfield site” (i.e., undeveloped land used for 
agriculture, landscape design, or left to evolve naturally)? If so, 
will existing ecosystem services be expanded / supported / 
maintained? 
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, undeveloped land left naturally. Description on 
website https://www.mmsd.com/what-we-do/flood-
management/greenseams 
4.1.2 Has an eco-hydrological model been developed?  4 4 Evidence 
Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) used 
“down-scaled” global climate models that indicated a 
warming trend and predicted climatic changes in 
Wisconsin. 
https://www.freshcoastguardians.com/application/fi
les/4315/5386/6421/MMSD_Urban_Biodiversity_Pla
n.pdf p.8  
 
Also University of Wisconsin developed eco-
hydrological model 
https://dc.uwm.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=311
6&context=etd 
4.1.3 Specify model type, such as WEAP, SWAT, RIBASIM, USACE.  1 0 Evidence 
Type not specified. The methodology used in these 
analyses is similar to that used in the 4th National 
Climate Assessment (USGCRP, 2017), and is based on 
the analyses of observational datasets for past 
changes and from modeling and downscaled 
datasets for projections produced for NCA4. 
Projections use a weighting system for global climate 
models, that are then statistically downscaled for 
temperature and precipitation at about 6 km 
resolution across the continental United States.  
4.1.4 
Have sources of pollution been analysed for the following 
(even if none have been found)? 
• Point source 
• Nonpoint source 
2 2 Evidence The Urban biodiversity plan reviewed SEWRPC plans 
with information on sources of pollution 
Total Site Inventory Score  8 7   
Eligibility Criterion passed / not passed  88 %   
 
  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-19 
SECTION 4.2: ECOLOGICAL BASELINES FOR MANAGEMENT 
Do we understand how the ecological characteristics of the site will evolve over time?  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
4.2.1 Is there an inventory of species that can be used as a baseline for 
vegetation and animal species? 
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, pg. 11 of MMSD urban biodiversity 
plan 
4.2.2 
If there is an inventory of species that can be used as a baseline for 
vegetation and animal species, does it specify or identify endangered / 
threatened species, ecological communities, or categories of species?  
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, pg.10 and 11 and pg.49 discusses 
endangered species 
4.2.3 Have studies on current or potential climate impacts on key species 
(e.g., endangered or threatened species) been included?  1 0 Evidence 
Not disclosed 
4.2.4 Is the flow regime used as a basis for ecological management?  1 1 Evidence 
Pg. 18 reviews stream conditions and how 
different factors will have impacts on 
species 
4.2.5 Is there a climate trends analysis for the site or region based on at least 
30 years of climate data? 1 1 Disclose 
Yes, look for climate effects to habitat 
through 2050 
4.2.6 Is there an assessment of exotic invasive species?   1 1 Evidence Yes, pg. 5 and 49 
4.2.7 If there is an assessment of exotic invasive species, has a plan been 
developed to cope with exotic invasive species? 1 1 Evidence 
Pg. 49 references immediate 
management step to control invasive 
Asian worm 
4.2.8 Has there been an assessment of trade-offs between reliability vs 
environmental benefits to support decision making processes?  1 0 Evidence 
Not disclosed 
Total Ecological Management Score  8 6 /8   
Eligibility Criterion passed / not passed  75 %   
 
 
SECTION 4.3: DATA INVENTORIES OF LOCALISED & INDIGENOUS ASSETS  
Do we have access to adequate, credible data about the project site?  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
4.3.1 Is there an inventory of existing water-related ecosystem services based 
on 30 or more years of data? 
1 0 Evidence 
Inventory, but does not states years 
4.3.2 
Does any existing inventory of water-related ecosystem services related 
to runoff / land-use include the following data? 
• Fire regime 
• Sediment / erosion load 
• Nutrient load 
• Land-use change 
3 3 Evidence 
Pg. 8 sediment loading 
Pg. 8 nutrient loading 
Pg. 7 land use change 
4.3.3 
Do inventories of water-related ecosystem services related to water 
quality include the following data: 
• Water quality for environmental services (e.g., habitat, ecological 
communities, erosion) 
• Water quality for human needs / services (e.g., drinking water, 
agriculture) 
2 2 Evidence 
Pg. 17 WQ for habitat and ecology 
Pg. 27 drinking water and human health 
4.3.4 
Is there an existing inventory of water-related ecosystem services related 
to water quantity? 
• Water quantity for environmental services (e.g., habitat, flow 
regime) 
• Water quality for human needs / services (e.g., service reliability)  
2 2 Evidence 
Pg. 17 WQ for habitat and ecology 
Pg. 27 drinking water and human health 
Total Existing Inventories Score  8 7/8   
Eligibility Criterion passed / not passed  88 %   
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-20 
 
SECTION 4.4: BROADER ECOSYSTEM IMPACTS 
Do we understand how the project’s impacts may extend beyond the site?  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
4.4.1 
Has there been a determination of proposed / estimated 
impacts from project construction and operations 
regarding local, upstream, and downstream species / 
ecological communities? 
1 1 Evidence 
Pg. 43 and several instances look at impact of Greenseams 
4.4.2 
Has there been a determination of proposed / estimated 
impacts on existing local, upstream, and downstream 
eco-hydrological systems from modification regarding: 
• Pollution 
• Downstream flow regime 
• Groundwater impacts 
• Land tenure (e.g., public vs private) 
4 4 Disclose 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes, looks at private land and public private partnerships  
4.4.3 
Has there been a determination of proposed / estimated 
impacts and benefits on eco-hydrological systems from 
changes in allocation via the following? 
• Relevant environmental flows management plans 
• Groundwater management plans 
2 0 Disclose 
Not disclosed in this report 
4.4.4 Has the monitoring system contributed to the 
development and goals of the basin management plan?  1 1 Disclose 
Yes, the basin management plan includes many goals 
involving monitoring of ecological communities and this 
program fits it perfectly 
Total Broader Impacts Systems Score  8 6/8   
Eligibility Criterion passed / not passed   75%   
 
SECTION 4.5: MONITORING & MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 
Do we have effective management processes and tools to maintain ecological integrity over time?  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
4.5.1 
Have target performance indicators been explicitly 
defined for: 
• Infrastructure services 
• Ecosystem services 
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, for ecosystem services pp.17-23 
Page V for infrastructure services 
4.5.2  Is there a monitoring plan in place for infrastructure 
performance indicators? 2 2 Evidence 
Pp. 45-46 Monitoring Framework 
4.5.3 Is there a monitoring plan in place for ecosystem 
performance indicators? 2 2 Evidence 
Pp. 45-46 Monitoring Framework 
4.5.4 Are monitoring outcomes connected to the decision 
making and management / operations process? 1 0 Evidence 
Not stated 
4.5.5 Is there a multi-stakeholder basin management plan?  1 Disclose 
Yes, SEWRPC 
Total Monitoring and Management Systems Score  6 5/6   
Eligibility Criterion passed / not passed  83 %   
 
  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Verifier’s Report | June 2020 A-21 
 
Section 5: ADAPTATION PLAN 
(To be completed for all Water Infrastructure assets)  
  Max 
Score 
Actual 
Score 
Requirement: 
Evidence 
and/or 
Disclosure 
Comments 
AP.1 Is there a plan to restore or secure lost/modified 
ecosystem functions / species?  1 1 Evidence 
MMSD adopted in 2019 a Resilience Plan designed to adapt 
infrastructure to changing climatic conditions with ecosystem 
functions in mind 
https://www.freshcoastguardians.com/static/Resilience_Plan_2
019_F.pdf 
AP.2 
Is the adaptation plan for environmental targets / 
infrastructure robust across specified observed / 
recent climate conditions? Confer VA  
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, adapting to increasing population and other factors to 
coincide with observed and recent climate conditions as well as 
addressing recent storms. 
AP.3 
Is the adaptation plan for environmental targets / 
infrastructure robust across specified projected 
climate conditions? Confer VA  
1 1 Evidence 
Yes, pg. 13 addresses projected changes in regional climate  
AP.4 
Is there a monitoring plan designed to track 
ongoing progress and impacts to inform future 
decisions? 
1 1 Evidence 
Page 60 Action 17 revolves around monitoring progress  
AP.5 
Is there a plan to reconsider on a periodic basis the 
VA for operational parameters, governance and 
allocation shifts, and environmental performance 
targets? 
1 0 Evidence 
No 
TOTAL ADAPTATION PLAN SCORE: 4 5/5   
Eligibility Criterion passed / not passed 28 %   
 
 
1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist 
2  
Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist 
 
1. Use of Proceeds 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement 
Met 
1.1 The Issuer shall document the Nominated Projects & Assets which are  proposed 
to be associated with the Bond and which have been assessed as likely to be Eligible 
Projects & Assets. The Issuer shall establish a list of Nominated Projects &  Assets 
which can be kept UpToDate during the term of the Bond. 
MMSD has a sophisticated list of nominated projects and assets 
which has been updated and reviewed by Kestrel as of 
publication of Verifier’s Report 
X 
1.2. The expected Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be no greater than the Issuer’s 
total investment exposure to the proposed Nominated Projects & Assets, or the 
relevant proportion of the total Market Value of the proposed Nominated Projects  
& Assets which are owned or funded by the Issuer. 
Net Proceeds are less than total investment exposure X 
1.3 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other Certified Climate 
Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, 
green loans or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds)  
unless it is demonstrated by the Issuer that:  
 
 
X 
1.3.1 Distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & Assets are being funded by 
different Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate  
Debt Instruments, green bond, green loans or other  labelled instruments or; 
The bonds are not nominated for any other green and/or climate 
bonds. 
 
X 
1.3.2 The existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Certified 
Climate Debt Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified Climate 
Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate Debt Instrument.  
No separate portions or re-financing involved X 
3  
2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects and Assets 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement 
Met 
2.1. The Issuer shall establish, document and maintain a decision -making process 
which it uses to determine the eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. The 
decision-making process shall include, without limitation: 
  
2.1.1. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond. Included in objectives X 
2.1.2 How the climate-related objectives of the Bond are positioned within the 
context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes 
relating to environmental sustainability.  
Aligned with MMSD Vision 2035 and Sustainability practices X 
2.1.3 Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond. To reduce financing costs with previous obligations. The original 
bond was to reduce energy costs and improve operational 
efficiency within their system.  
X 
2.1.4 A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & Assets meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Review of sector criteria and taxonomy was performed by 
MMSD and reviewed by Kestrel 
X 
2.2 Issuer should include under Clause 2.1 further aspects of the decision-making 
process, including: 
  
2.2.1 Related eligibility criteria, including, if applicable, exclusion criteria or any 
other process, applied to identify and manage potentially material 
environmental, social or governance risks associated with the Nominated  
Projects & Assets. 
No exclusion criteria adopted, but risk assessments included 
with project process 
X 
2.2.2 Green standards or certifications referenced in the selection of Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
Green standards were a goal stated X 
2.2.3 The issuer shall assess that all proposed Nominated Projects & Assets to be 
associated with the Bond meet the documented objectives as stated under Clause 
2.1.1 and are likely to conform to the relevant eligibility requirements under Part C of 
the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Projects align with climate objectives X 
4  
3. Management of Proceeds 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement 
Met 
3.1 The systems, policies and processes to be used for management of the Net 
Proceeds shall be documented by the Issuer and disclosed to the Verifier, and shall  
include arrangements for the following activities: 
  
3.1.1 The Net Proceeds  of the Bond can be credited  to a sub- account, 
moved to a sub-portfolio, or otherwise tracked by the Issuer in an appropriate 
manner and documented. 
Yes, all MMSD bond proceeds overseen by the Treasurer, 
proceeds are credited to a sub-account and tracked while limited 
to State investment policy as outlined in Report. Furthermore, as 
a refunding, proceeds are allocated to debt service immediately. 
X 
3.1.2 The balance of unallocated Net Proceeds can be managed as per the  
requirements in Clause 7.3. 
All proceeds allocated to refunding X 
3.1.3 The earmarking process can be used to manage and account for funding 
to the Nominated Projects & Assets and enables estimation of the share  of 
the Net Proceeds being used for financing and refinancing.  
Yes, earmarked for refunding, disbursed immediately X 
5  
4. Reporting Prior To Issuance 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings Requirement 
Met 
4.1 The Issuer shall prepare a Green Bond Framework and make it publicly available 
prior to Issuance or at the time of Issuance. The Green Bond Framework shall  
include, without limitation: 
  
4.1.1 Confirmation that the Bonds issued under the Green Bond Framework 
are aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard. This may include statements of 
alignment with other applicable standards, such as the EU Green Bond 
Standard, the ASEAN Green Bond Standard, Chin ese domestic regulations, 
Japanese Green Bond Guidelines, etc. 
Yes, stated in framework seeking climate bond certification X 
4.1.2 A summary of the expected use of proceeds, as defined under Clause 
1.1, andthe expected contribution of the relevant sectors or sub -sectors to 
the rapid transition required to achieve the goals of the Paris Climate  
Agreement. 
Summary of projects and use of proceeds included with sectors 
addressed and use of proceeds already done 
X 
4.1.3 A description of the decision-making process, as defined under Clause 
2.1, with particular reference to the requirements in Clause 2.1.2.  
Yes, project evaluation decision making process included X 
4.1.4 on the methodology and assumptions to be used for: confirming, where 
required by relevant Sector Eligibility Criteria, the characteristics or 
performance of Nominated Projects & Assets required to conform to the 
relevant eligibility requirements under Part  C of the Climate Bonds Standard; 
and any other additional impact metrics that the issuer will define.  
MMSD committed to continuing disclosures and voluntarily 
reporting on how projects met criteria and towards UN SDGs 
X 
4.1.5 A summary of the approach to the management of unallocated Net 
Proceeds in accordance with Clause 3.1. 
Investment policy is described, but all proceeds allocated to 
refunding 
X 
4.1.6 The intended approach to providing Update Reports to reaffirm 
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard while the Bond remains  
outstanding. 
Posted to EMMA X 
4.1.7 The list of proposed Nominated Projects & Assets associated with the Bond 
and the investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, into which the Nominated 
Projects & Assets fall. Where there are limits on the amount of detail that can be 
made available about specific Nominated Projects & Assets, information shall be 
presented on the investment areas which the Nominated Projects & Assets fall  
into, provided in Clause 9.1, and the Issuer shall provide an explanation of why 
details on Nominated Projects & Assets is limited. 
Projects listed and broken into sector as will be invested X 
 
6  
4.1.8 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used for refinancing, an 
estimate of the share of the Net Proceeds used for financing and refinancing, 
and the relevant Nominated Projects & Assets or investment areas which 
may be refinanced. This may also include the expected look -back period for 
refinanced Nominated Projects & Assets.  
100% refinancing X 
4.2 The Issuer shall include in the Disclosure Documentation:    
4.1.1 The investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, into which the 
Nominated Projects & Assets fall. 
Yes, project specific details provided X 
4.1.2 The intended types of temporary investment instruments for the 
management ofunallocated  Net Proceeds in accordance with Clause 7.3. 
No investment of funds as used for refunding X 
4.1.3 The Verifier engaged by the Issuer for the mandatory verification 
engagements. 
Kestrel Verifiers X 
4.1.4 The intended approach to providing Update Reports to reaffirm 
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard while the Bond remains 
outstanding, including the location of the published documents.  
Posted to EMMA X 
4.1.5 The CBI Disclaimer provided in the Certification Agreement.  Signed and agreed X