Morgan Stanley Sustainable 
Issuance Framework
January 2025
Introduction
Morgan Stanley (“Morgan Stanley” or the “Firm”) is a leading global financial services firm. 
At Morgan Stanley, our sustainability strategy is focused on helping our clients achieve their 
own sustainability-related ambitions by providing advice, products and solutions. In 2021, 
Morgan Stanley set a goal to mobilize $1 trillion for sustainable solutions by 2030, including $750 
billion toward low-carbon and green solutions. We have made significant progress, having now 
achieved over $820 billion1. Morgan Stanley’s three business segments—Institutional Securities, 
Wealth Management and Investment Management— contribute to our sustainable finance target 
and also offer a broader range of sustainability-related products and solutions to our clients.  
Our ability to deliver an integrated firm allows us to capture new opportunities that aim to bring 
positive long-term results not only to our clients and shareholders, but to the environment and 
society at large. In order to do this, we need to ensure that relevant ESG topics are incorporated 
into our corporate policies, business activities and operations. There are various ESG topics that 
are important to the Firm, including human capital, climate change and governance. 
Led by our Chief Sustainability Officer and overseen by our Chief Administrative Officer, the Global 
Sustainability Office (“GSO”) drives the Firm’s sustainability strategy through thought leadership 
and innovation. GSO is organized across three areas of focus:
1. Global Sustainable Finance partners with Institutional Securities, Wealth Management 
and Investment Management to provide innovative ESG advice, products and solutions for 
our clients. As part of this effort, the Morgan Stanley Sustainable Insights Lab serves as an 
ESG data hub for the Firm, catalyzing data-driven solutions and quantitative analyses on 
sustainability topics 
2. Firmwide Sustainability works to integrate ESG considerations across our business practices, 
operations and culture. This includes driving our Firmwide climate strategy, managing key Firm 
ESG disclosures, engaging with stakeholders and reducing the environmental impact of our 
operations  
3. The Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable Investing (“ISI”) helps accelerate the field of 
sustainable investing through thought leadership and capacity-building programs. The ISI is 
guided by an external advisory board that helps shape our ESG efforts both internally and 
externally
MORGAN STANLEY 01
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
1  Data as of December 31, 2023.
Sustainable Issuance Framework
Morgan Stanley has established this Sustainable Issuance Framework (“Framework”), which will 
enable the issuance of green, social and sustainability instruments (together the “Sustainable 
Instruments”)2 by Morgan Stanley or any of its wholly owned subsidiaries to finance or refinance 
a variety of assets (“Eligible Projects”) which, in the view of Morgan Stanley, contribute to 
environmental and social objectives as further detailed in the eligibility criteria section.
This Framework aims to bring together investment and private capital to contribute to real 
economy decarbonization and create lasting positive change to communities across the globe.
Morgan Stanley’s Framework is aligned to the Green Bond Principles (“GBP”) 20213, the Social 
Bond Principles (“SBP”) 2023 4 and the Sustainability Bond Guidelines (“SBG”) 2021 5 (collectively, 
the “Principles”) as administered by the International Capital Market Association (“ICMA”), and 
addresses the following key pillars, in line with the Principles:
1. Use of Proceeds
2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection
3. Management of Proceeds
4. Reporting
5. External Reviews
MORGAN STANLEY 02
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
2  As used herein, the term “instruments” refers to any issuance made pursuant to the Framework, which may include but is not limited to 
bonds, notes, certificates and time deposits. 
3  With June 2022 Appendix, https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable-finance/2022-updates/Green-Bond-Principles_
June-2022-280622.pdf
4 https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable-finance/2023-updates/Social-Bond-Principles-SBP-June-2023- 220623.pd f
5  https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable-finance/2021-updates/Sustainability-Bond-Guidelines-June-2021- 140621.pd f
1. USE OF PROCEEDS
1.1 Eligibility Criteria 
An amount equal to the gross proceeds raised by way of Sustainable Instruments issued pursuant 
to this Framework will be allocated to the financing or refinancing, in whole or in part, of 
new or existing green or social loans, investments and expenditures (“Eligible Projects”), that 
Morgan Stanley or any of its wholly owned subsidiaries considers consistent with the eligibility 
criteria in this Framework, and which together form the “Eligible Portfolio”.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”)
The SDGs were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 as a universal call to action towards an 
inclusive, low-carbon world economy. Each category of Eligible Projects set out in this Framework 
seeks to advance the SDGs as mapped in the table on the following page.
MORGAN STANLEY 03
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
Eligibility Criteria for Green Projects
To qualify for the Eligible Portfolio as an Eligible Project, a green project must meet the eligibility 
criteria for at least one of the following project categories.
Renewable 
Energy
Climate change 
mitigation
Financing for, and investments in, renewable and 
low-carbon energy, including the development, 
storage, transmission, construction, installation, 
operation, acquisition, maintenance, upgrades and 
associated costs relating to the following: 
• Wind energy
• Solar energy
• Hydro power 6 
• Geothermal energy facilities 7 
• Hydrogen produced with renewable energy
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA CORE 
SDGS
ELIGIBLE
CATEGORY
ENVIRONMENTAL 
OBJECTIVE
6  Consists of activities that comply with any of the following: a) an electricity generation facility that is a run-of-river plant and does not have 
an artificial reservoir; b) an electricity generation facility with power density above 5 W/m2 for projects built before 2020 and 10 W/m2 for 
projects built after 2020; or c) an electricity generation facility where the life-cycle greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions from the generation 
of electricity from hydropower are lower than 100gCO2e/kWh for projects built before 2020 or 50gCO2e/kWh for projects built after 2020, 
as verified by a third party.
7  Consists of activities where the life-cycle GHG emissions from generation of electricity from geothermal energy are lower than 100g/CO2e/
kWH, as verified by a third party.
8 Excludes manufacturing, industrial, and storage facilities.
Energy 
Storage
Climate change 
mitigation
Financing for, and investments in, battery storage 
systems, including the development, transmission, 
construction, installation, operation, acquisition, 
maintenance, upgrades and associated costs
Green 
Buildings
Climate change 
mitigation
Financing for, and investments in, the development, 
construction, installation, operation, acquisition, 
maintenance, upgrades and associated costs 
relating to: 
• Buildings 8 with current certifications from 
third party verified green building standards, 
including: 
 ○ LEED Gold or Platinum Standard 
 ○ BREEAM Very Good, Excellent or 
Outstanding Standard
 ○ DGNB Gold or Platinum
 ○ Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) A
 ○ Energy Star 85 and above
 ○ NABERS 4.5 Stars and above
 ○ Green Star 5 and 6

MORGAN STANLEY 04
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
Green 
Buildings
Climate change 
mitigation
• Buildings 8 that are working towards the above 
certifications. To qualify as eligible, buildings 
that are working towards 9 certification will 
have achieved one or both of the following:
 ○ Have a signed construction contract in 
place which states that the building will 
be developed, expanded, constructed, 
or renovated to meet one of the above 
certifications 
 ○ Have received interim certifications 
or confirmations indicating the 
construction-in-process is being 
performed in accordance with accredited 
certification milestones, as verified by an 
accredited certification administrator or 
other similar qualified third party
• Energy-efficient data centers designed for 
annualized Power Usage Effectiveness (“PUE”) 
less than or equal to 1.5 10
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA CORE 
SDGS
ENVIRONMENTAL 
OBJECTIVE
8  Excludes manufacturing, industrial, and storage facilities. 
9  Buildings that are working towards certification may not ultimately obtain an accredited certification and will be excluded from the portfolio 
if such accreditation expires or the final certification does not comply with the criteria set forth by this Framework. Interim certifications and 
confirmations are not equivalent to having a certification. These are milestones that occur in the process of working towards certification. 
There is no guarantee that these interim certifications or confirmations will result in an eventual certification or verification.
10  As verified by a third party.
11  Consists of infrastructure to support zero direct emissions vehicles and excludes standalone parking facilities.
12  Including fully electrified public transport, urban metro, rail and non-motorized, multi-modal transportation.
13  The infrastructure and installations will be dedicated to urban and suburban public passenger transport, including associated signaling 
systems for metro, tram and rail systems. Excludes freight rail.
Clean 
Transportion
Climate change 
mitigation
Financing for, and investments in, construction, 
development, acquisition, maintenance and 
operation of: 
• Zero direct emissions vehicles, including cars, 
trucks and buses (“EVs”)
• Charging stations and other infrastructure and 
equipment dedicated to electrified passenger 
transport 11, including battery technology
• Building or operating mass transit 12, rolling 
stock and the infrastructure to support mass 
transit, including depot and maintenance 
facilities, signaling equipment, platform gates, 
utilities and other enabling infrastructure that 
promotes transportation 13
ELIGIBLE
CATEGORY
MORGAN STANLEY 05
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
14  Limited to municipal wastewater treatment projects.
15  Limited to municipal governments with a vulnerability assessment, including an assessment of climate risks and an adaptation plan.
Sustainable 
Water & 
Wastewater 
Management
Climate change 
adaptation and 
sustainable use 
and protection 
of water and 
marine resources
Financing for and investments in the construction, 
development, acquisition, maintenance and 
operation of infrastructure for:
• Making clean and/or drinking water
• Wastewater treatment 14  
• Urban drainage systems
• River training and other forms of flooding 
mitigation15
Affordable 
Housing
Projects aiming to 
provide housing 
at affordable 
rates to low- or 
moderate-
income (“LMI”) 
individuals and/
or families
Affordable housing projects are required to meet 
one of the following categories:
• Investments in funds that have the stated 
objective, per the fund’s governing documents, 
in part, to provide the limited partners 
with opportunities to make investments in 
low-income communities, including without 
limitation affordable housing projects 
that meet the definition of public welfare 
investments as defined in 12 CFR 24.3  
• Has received a Low-Income Housing Tax 
Credit “LIHTC” (created by the Tax Reform 
Act of 1986, as amended) from relevant 
allocating agencies
Access to 
Education
Projects aiming 
to expand access 
to quality and 
affordable 
education to  
underprivileged  
students
Financing of activities that are designed to provide 
access to education, teachers, and teacher training 
materials; including costs related to: 
• Pre-primary, primary and secondary education 
programs at school districts, charter schools 
and/or special act districts. This includes costs 
pertaining to teachers and students within 
these districts or schools receiving Title I 
funding under the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act, amended by the Every Student 
Succeeds Act
Eligibility Criteria for Social Projects
To qualify for the Eligible Portfolio as an Eligible Project, a social project must meet the eligibility 
criteria for at least one of the following project categories.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA CORE 
SDGS
ENVIRONMENTAL 
OBJECTIVE
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA CORE 
SDGS
SOCIAL 
OBJECTIVE
ELIGIBLE
CATEGORY
ELIGIBLE
CATEGORY
MORGAN STANLEY 06
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION  
 
The Firm ESG Committee (the “ESG Committee”) will have overall responsibility for the 
supervision of the procedures outlined in this Framework. The ESG Committee has cross-Firm 
representation, including from the Global Sustainability Office, Finance, Risk Management and 
Legal and Compliance functions, and from the Institutional Securities, Investment Management and 
Wealth Management business segments.   
The ESG Committee will review the Framework and items related to Morgan Stanley’s sustainable 
issuances on an annual basis, and more frequently, as necessary.  
The process for evaluation and selection of Eligible Projects will be as follows:
1. Utilizing the eligibility criteria within this Framework, the relevant business units will 
identify and propose Eligible Projects. The Eligible Projects will be tracked using an internal 
system and aggregated to form the Eligible Portfolio.
2. On an ongoing basis, new projects meeting the eligibility criteria will be added to the 
Eligible Portfolio and projects that have matured or been reimbursed will exit the portfolio.
3. A working group supervised by the ESG Committee and comprised of members from the 
Global Sustainability Office, Treasury, Environmental and Social Risk Management, among 
other functions (the “Sustainable Issuance Working Group”) shall meet, at minimum, on 
a semi-annual basis to review the Eligible Portfolio in consultation with the participating 
business units. The Sustainable Issuance Working Group will make decisions on a consensus 
basis. Projects that no longer comply with the eligibility criteria will be excluded from the 
Eligible Portfolio.
1.2 Risk Management & Exclusionary Criteria
Morgan Stanley employs robust risk management policies, including for environmental and social 
risk, to help the Firm deliver long-term value for our clients, shareholders and employees.  
Morgan Stanley’s Environmental and Social Policy Statement (“ESPS”) outlines the Firm’s 
commitment and approach to identifying and assessing environmental and social risks, including 
due diligence processes and tailored approaches to certain sectors and cross-sector issues. It is an 
evolving document which is reviewed annually by our Environmental and Social Risk Management 
team, senior representatives of the business units, the Global Sustainability Office, and other 
relevant internal control functions and updated accordingly to address emerging risks and market 
developments. The ESPS is approved by the Firm’s ESG and Global Franchise Committees and 
material amendments are presented to the Governance and Sustainability Committee of the 
Morgan Stanley Board of Directors for Approval. 
Any project that fails to meet the eligibility criteria defined in Section 1.1 or is inconsistent or in 
contravention with Morgan Stanley’s ESPS is excluded from the Eligible Portfolio.
MORGAN STANLEY 07
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS  
 
As described in Section 2, Eligible Projects will be tracked in internal systems and will be 
aggregated to form the Eligible Portfolio. The Eligible Portfolio is dynamic: new Eligible Projects 
may be added as projects exit and proceeds are redeemed over the life of any Sustainable 
Instrument.  
The proceeds from the issuance of Sustainable Instruments will be managed on a portfolio basis. 
On an ongoing basis, Treasury will monitor the Eligible Portfolio against the gross proceeds from 
the outstanding green, social and/or sustainability instruments to confirm:
In the case of insufficient Eligible Projects in the Eligible Portfolio, Morgan Stanley will hold 
the balance of the unallocated amount in cash, cash equivalents and/or other high quality liquid 
assets in a segregated account established for tracking purposes until the amount and proceeds 
therefrom can be allocated to the Eligible Portfolio.
Payment of principal and interest on any Sustainable Instrument will be made from 
Morgan Stanley’s general funds and will not be directly linked to the performance of any 
Eligible Project.
• An amount equal to the gross proceeds raised through the green instruments will be at 
least equal to the amount of assets in the green Eligible Portfolio, which meet the Eligibility 
Criteria for Green Projects;
• An amount equal to the gross proceeds raised through the sustainability instruments will 
be at least equal to an amount of assets in a combination of the green and social Eligible 
Portfolios, which meet the Eligibility Criteria for Green and Social Projects respectively.
• An amount equal to the gross proceeds raised through the social instruments will be at 
least equal to the amount of assets in the social Eligible Portfolio, which meet the Eligibility 
Criteria for Social Projects; and
• The total amount of Sustainable Instruments outstanding pursuant to this Framework;
• The reported amounts of the assets in the Eligible Portfolio determined in accordance with 
U.S. GAAP;
• The amount of unallocated proceeds, if any; and
• The breakdown of the Eligible Portfolio by Eligible Category as outlined above
4. REPORTING 
 
On an annual basis until the outstanding green, social, and sustainability instruments have 
matured, Morgan Stanley will publicly disclose on its website or in its ESG Report: 
Additionally, where feasible, Morgan Stanley will report on the anticipated or estimated 
environmental and/or social impact of the Eligible Portfolio. Indicative impact metrics across each 
Eligible Category include but are not limited to those found in the Appendix of this Framework. 
MORGAN STANLEY 08
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
Depending on the availability and provided that no confidentiality agreements apply, 
Morgan Stanley may complement the above indicators with relevant case studies.  
The information and materials found on Morgan Stanley’s website, including, without limitation, 
the aforementioned report, are not part of or incorporated by reference into this document.
5. EXTERNAL REVIEWS 
5.1 Second-Party Opinion 
Prior to issuance, Morgan Stanley has appointed an independent second-party opinion provider to 
conduct an external review and issue a second-party opinion on the Framework’s alignment to the 
GBP, SBP, and SBG.
FRAMEWORK UPDATES
Morgan Stanley may update the Framework from time to time for alignment with market practice, 
the Firm’s business or sustainability strategy, and regulatory developments.
5.2 External Assurance
Within one year of issuance, and on an annual basis until the outstanding green, social, 
and sustainability instruments have matured, Morgan Stanley will request an independent 
accountant to perform an attestation engagement conducted in accordance with attestation 
standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants pertaining to 
Morgan Stanley’s management assertion regarding the amount of assets determined in accordance 
with U.S. GAAP in the Eligible Portfolio compared to the gross proceeds from the outstanding 
Sustainable Instruments.
MORGAN STANLEY 09
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
Appendix: Possible Impact Reporting Metrics
The relevant metrics may include, amongst others:
Renewable Energy:
• Annual GHG emissions reduced/avoided in tons CO2e
• Total energy produced in MW per year
Green Buildings: 
• Annual GHG emissions reduced/avoided in tons CO2e
• Number of assets funded 
Sustainable Water & Wastewater Management: 
• Total population served by the system
• Volume of water (m3) saved/reduced/treated
Clean Transportation: 
• Annual GHG emissions reduced/avoided in tons CO2e
• Number of mass transit systems supported
• Number of EVs and/or EV charging stations financed
Energy Storage:
• Annual storage capacity in MWh
Affordable Housing:
• Number of housing units created or rehabilitated
Access to Education: 
• Number of educational institutions funded
DISCLAIMERS
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
We have included in this Framework, and from time to time may make 
in our public filings, press releases or other public statements, certain 
statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within 
the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make 
forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives 
of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not 
historical facts and represent only our beliefs regarding future events, 
many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond 
our control.
The nature of our business makes predicting the future trends of 
our revenues, expenses, and net income difficult. The risks and 
uncertainties involved in our businesses could affect the matters 
referred to in such statements, and it is possible that our actual 
results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results 
indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that 
could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking 
statements include (without limitation):
• the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, 
fixed income, currency, credit and commodities markets, 
including corporate, commercial and residential mortgage 
lending, real estate and energy markets;
• the level of individual investor participation in the global markets 
as well as the level and mix of client assets;
• the flow of investment capital into or from assets under 
management;
• the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity 
prices, interest rates, inflation and currency values, other market 
indices or other market factors, such as market liquidity;
• the availability and cost of both credit and capital, as well as the 
credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-
term debt;
• technological changes instituted by us, our competitors or 
counterparties and technological risks, including risks associated 
with emerging technologies, business continuity and related 
operational risks, including breaches or other disruptions of our 
or a third party’s (or third-parties thereof) operations or systems;
• risk associated with cybersecurity threats, including data 
protection and cybersecurity risk management;
• our ability to effectively manage our capital and liquidity, 
including under stress tests designed by our banking regulators;
• the impact of current, pending and future legislation or changes 
thereto, regulation (including capital, leverage, funding, liquidity, 
consumer protection, and recovery and resolution requirements) 
and our ability to address such requirements;
• uncertainty concerning fiscal or monetary policies established 
by central banks and financial regulators, government 
shutdowns, debt ceilings or funding;
• changes to global trade policies, tariffs, and replacement or 
reform of certain interest rate benchmarks;
• legal and regulatory actions, including litigation and 
enforcement, and other non-financial risks in the U.S. and 
worldwide;
• changes in tax laws and regulations globally;
• the effectiveness of our risk management processes and related 
controls, including climate risk;
• our ability to effectively respond to an economic downturn, or 
other market disruptions;
• the effect of social, economic, and political conditions and 
geopolitical events, including as a result of government 
shutdowns, changes in U.S. presidential administrations or 
Congress, sovereign risk, acts of war or aggression, and terrorist 
activities or military actions;
• the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, 
as well as governments, central banks, regulators and self-
regulatory organizations;
• our ability to provide innovative products and services and 
execute our strategic initiatives, and costs related thereto, 
including with respect to the operational or technological 
integration related to such innovative and strategic initiatives;
• the performance and results of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint 
ventures, partnerships, minority stakes or strategic alliances, or 
other strategic arrangements and related integrations;
• investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in 
the financial markets;
• our reputation and the general perception of the financial 
services industry; 
• our ability to retain, integrate and attract qualified employees or 
successfully transition key roles; and
• climate-related incidents, other environmental and sustainability 
matters, and global pandemics 
Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on 
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on 
which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly 
or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of 
circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise 
except as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult 
further disclosures we may make in future filings of our annual reports 
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on 
Form 8-K and any amendments thereto or in future press releases or 
other public statements.
MATERIALITY
The disclosures included in this Framework are being provided to 
the public in an effort to provide transparency into our sustainable 
issuances. Our approaches to the disclosures included in this 
Framework differ in significant ways from those included in 
mandatory regulatory reporting, including under SEC rules and 
regulations. Information within this Framework may be presented from 
a different perspective or in more detail than disclosures mandated 
by our global regulators. In particular, while the foregoing discussion 
describes potential future events that may be significant or material 
(based on disclosure recommendations and broader definitions 
of materiality used by certain voluntary external frameworks and 
reporting guidelines or those in non-U.S. jurisdictions), impact 
reporting metrics, and sustainable development and finance goals, 
the significance or materiality of those potential events, metrics, 
and goals should not be read as equating to or arising to the level of 
materiality as required under U.S. federal securities laws, including 
as the concept is used in Morgan Stanley’s periodic filings with the 
SEC under the Exchange Act. In addition, any discussion of forward-
looking statements in this Framework is not an indication that the 
subject or information is material to Morgan Stanley for U.S. federal 
securities laws and regulations reporting purposes.
USE OF THIRD-PARTY INFORMATION
No reports, documents or websites that are cited or referred to in 
this Framework shall be deemed to form part of this Framework. In 
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
MORGAN STANLEY 10
addition, certain information contained in this Framework has been 
derived from publicly available information released by third-party 
sources, which Morgan Stanley believes to be reasonable, although 
Morgan Stanley has only been able to complete limited validation. To 
the extent that such third-party information we use is subsequently 
determined to be erroneous or otherwise not in keeping with 
best practices, it may affect our disclosures. Certain third-party 
information may change over time as methodologies evolve and are 
refined or current data changes or is restated or new data is added.
OTHER DISCLOSURES
The information contained in this Framework is provided as at the 
date of this Framework and is subject to change without notice. 
Morgan Stanley does not assume any responsibility or obligation 
to update or revise the statements contained in this Framework, 
regardless of whether those statements are affected by the results 
of new information, future events or otherwise. This Framework is not 
intended to, nor can it be relied on, to create legal relations, rights or 
obligations. This Framework is intended to provide non-exhaustive, 
general information.
Any references to “sustainable investing,” “sustainable investments,” 
“ESG” or similar terms in this Framework are intended as references 
to the internally defined criteria of the firm or our businesses only, as 
applicable, and not to any jurisdiction-specific regulatory definition.
No representation is made as to the suitability of any issuance of 
green, social or sustainability instruments to fulfill environmental and 
sustainability criteria required by prospective investors. Each potential 
purchaser should determine for itself the relevance of the information 
contained or referred to in this Framework or the relevant instrument 
documentation regarding the use of proceeds and its purchase 
should be based upon such investigation as it deems necessary. 
Each potential investor should be aware that Eligible Projects may 
not satisfy the investor’s expectations concerning environmental or 
sustainability benefits, and may result in adverse impacts.
This Framework does not constitute a recommendation regarding 
any securities of Morgan Stanley. This Framework is not, does not 
contain and may not be intended as an offer to sell or a solicitation 
of any offer to buy any securities issued by Morgan Stanley. In 
particular, neither this document nor any other related material may 
be distributed or published in any jurisdiction in which it is unlawful 
to do so, except under circumstances that will result in compliance 
with any applicable laws and regulations. Persons into whose 
possession such documents may come must inform themselves 
about, and observe, any applicable restrictions on distribution. If any 
offer to sell or solicitation of any offer to buy any securities issued 
by Morgan Stanley is made, it will be done so pursuant to separate 
and distinct documentation in the form of a prospectus supplement, 
an accompanying prospectus or other equivalent document and a 
related pricing term sheet (collectively, the “Offering Documents”). 
Any decision to subscribe for or purchase any securities pursuant 
to such offer or solicitation should be made only after carefully 
reviewing such Offering Documents, including any documents 
incorporated by reference therein, and consulting with any legal, tax, 
financial and other advisors, as appropriate. No decision to subscribe 
for or purchase any securities of Morgan Stanley should be made on 
the basis of the information contained in this Framework.
Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities is a business of Morgan Stanley 
& Co. LLC.
Morgan Stanley Investment Management is the asset management 
division of Morgan Stanley.
Morgan Stanley Wealth Management is a business of Morgan Stanley 
Smith Barney LLC.
MORGAN STANLEY SUSTAINABLE ISSUANCE FRAMEWORK  | JANUARY 2025
MORGAN STANLEY 11
© 2025 Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC. Member SIPC  CRC 4105537  1/2025