© Sustainalytics 2020 
  
 
Second-Party Opinion 
New World Development Sustainable 
Finance Framework 
 
Evaluation Summary 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the New World Development (“NWD”) Sustainable 
Finance Framework  aligns with the Green Bond Principles 2018 and Social Bond 
Principles 2020. This assessment is based on the following:   
 
 The eligible categories for the use of proceeds – 
(i) Green Buildings  and Landscapes , (ii) Energy Efficiency, (iii) 
Renewable Energy, (iv) Water Management, (v) Circular Economy and 
Waste Management, (vi) Climate Change Adaptation, (vii) Access to 
Basic Infrastructure and Essential Services, (viii) Affordable Housing, 
and (ix) Socio-economic Advancement and Employment Generation  
– are aligned with those recognized by both the Green Bond 
Principles 2018 and Social Bond Principles  2020. Sustainalytics 
considers that the eligible categories will lead to positive 
environmental or social impacts and advance the UN  Sustainable 
Development Goals  (SDGs), specifically SDG s 3,4,6,7,8,11,12,13,14 
and 15.  
 
 NWD will establish a 
Sustainable Finance Review Panel consisting of representatives from 
NWD’s Finance & Accounts, Group Audit and Management Services, 
Project Management, and Sustainability de partments for its project 
evaluation and selection process . The final approval for project 
eligibility will be provided by NWD’s CEO and the Chairperson of the 
Group Sustainability Steering Committee. Sustainalytics considers 
the project selection process in line with market practice. 
 
 NWD’s Finance and Accounting 
departments will establish a register where it will record details of 
funding transactions under this Framework. This register will contain 
information for each funding transaction as well as information on 
the allocation of proceed s. Unallocated proceeds will be held as 
deposits, such as cash and cash equivalents, in banks in accordance 
with NWD’s treasury or liquidity management policy . Sustainalytics 
encourages NWD to  disclose the period over which the Company 
intends to allocate the proceeds raised. 
 
 NWD intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its 
website on an annual basis  or in case of any material changes,  until 
full allocation. In addition, NWD is committed to reporting on relevant 
environmental and social impact metrics. Sustainalytics views 
NWD’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market 
practice. 
 
 
Evaluation date November 3, 2020 
Issuer Location Hong Kong, China 
 
Report Sections 
 
 
Introduction .................................................. 2 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 
Appendices ................................................ 11 
 
 
For inquiries, contact the Sustainable 
Finance Solutions project team: 
Begum Gursoy (Amsterdam) 
Project Manager 
begum.gursoy@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0082 
Winnie Toppo (Toronto) 
Project Support 
winnie.toppo@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3648 
Nicholas Gandolfo (Singapore) 
Client Relations 
susfinance.apac@sustainalytics.com 
(+852) 3008 2391 
 
  

Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
2 
Introduction 
New World Development Company Limited (“New World Development”, “NWD” or “the company”) is an 
investment holding company that invests in, develops, and manages properties in Hong Kong, Mainland China, 
and internationally, including residential as well as commercial real estate, provision of property and facility 
management, infrastructure operations, and a variety of other servi ces. The company was founded in 1970 
and is headquartered in Hong Kong.  
NWD has developed the New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  (the “Framework”) under 
which it intends to issue sustainability bonds and loans, and use the proceeds to finance and refinance, in 
whole or in part, existing and future projects that will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, 
promote sustainable resource management and provide social benefits in Hong Kong  and Mainland China. 
The Framework defines eligibility criteria in seven green and three social areas: 
Green Eligible Categories  
1. Green Buildings and Landscapes 
2. Energy Efficiency 
3. Renewable Energy 
4. Water Management 
5. Circular Economy and Waste Management 
6. Climate Change Adaptation 
 
Social Eligible Categories 
 
1. Access to Basic Infrastructure and Essential Services 
2. Affordable Housing 
3. Socio-economic Advancement and Employment Generation 
 
NWD engaged Sustainalytics to review the updated New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework, 
dated October 2020, and provide a second -party opinion on the Framework’s environmental and social 
credentials and its alignment with the Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018 (SBG).1 This Framework has been 
published in a separate document.2  
Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics Second-Party Opinion 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent3 opinion on the alignment of the 
reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the  extent to which the eligible categories are 
credible and impactful. 
As part of the Second-Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: 
• The Framework’s alignment with th e Green Bond Principles 2018, Social Bond Principles 20 20, and 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018, as administered by ICMA; 
• The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds; 
• The alignment of the issuer ’s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk 
management in relation to the use of proceeds. 
For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.4, which is 
informed by market practice and Sustainalytics’ expertise as an ESG research provider. 
As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of NWD’s management 
team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as 
well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. NWD representatives have 
confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of NWD to ensure that the information provided is 
 
1  The Sustainability Bond Guidelines are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at 
https://www.icmagroup.org/green-social-and-sustainability-bonds/sustainability-bond-guidelines-sbg/ 
2 The New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework is available on NWD’s website at: https://sustainability.nwd.com.hk/ 
3 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst 
independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management framework 
that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial an d research (and 
engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial 
outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency. 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
3 
complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and 
(3) that any prov ided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also 
reviewed relevant public documents and non-public information. 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that 
Framework. 
Any update of the present Second -Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement 
conditions between Sustainalytics and NWD. 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with mar ket 
standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market 
standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 
projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The 
measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the 
responsibility of the Framework owner.  
In addition, the Second -Party Opinion opines on the inte nded allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee 
the realised allocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities. 
No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second -Party Opinion shall be considered as 
being a statement, representation, warrant or argument either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that NWD has made 
available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this SPO.   
Sustainalytics’ Opinion 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the New World Development Sustainable 
Finance Framework 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework is credible, 
impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018 (GBP) and Social Bond 
Principles 20 20 (SBP). Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of NWD’s Sustainability Bond 
Framework: 
• Use of Proceeds:  
- The eligible categories, (i) Green Buildings and Landscapes, (ii) Energy Efficiency, (iii) Renewable 
Energy, (iv) Water Management, (v) Circular Economy and Waste Management, (vi)  Climate 
Change Adaptation, (vii) Access to Basic Infrastructure and Essential Services, ( viii) Affordable 
Housing, and (ix) Socio-economic Advancement and Employment Generation , are aligned with 
those recognized by the GBP and SBP. Sustainalytics acknowledges that NWD’s use of proceeds 
will contribute to  the reduction of  greenhouse gas emissions, promote sustainable resource 
management, and provide social benefits in Hong Kong and Mainland China. 
- While NWD does not disclose a look -back period for its refinancing activities, the Company 
intends to report on the share of financing vs. refinancing in its annual reporting.  
- As part of the Green Building s category, NWD intends to invest in the development or 
redevelopment of residential, commercial and retail buildings using recognized third-party 
certification standards, namely Hong Kong BEAM Plus (Gold or above), China Green Building 
Evaluation Label (2 star s or above), LEED (Gold or above), Living Building Challenge  (Living 
Building Certification, Petal Certification with Energy as one of the Petals, or Zero Energy 
Certification), BREEAM (Excellent or above), or equivalent recognized standards. Sustainalytics 
views these certifications as credible, and the levels selected as impactful. (See Appendix 1 for 
further description of the referenced building standards.) In addition to the listed standards, the 
financed green buildings may achieve WELL Building Standard (any level) to improve the well -
being of the occupants.  NWD may also invest in the development or redevelopment of green 
landscapes4 using Sustainable SITES Initiative (any level).  
 
4 NWD confirmed that the Company does not intend to finance green buildings under the green landscape projects using Sustainable SITES Initiative. 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
4 
- Under the  Energy Efficiency category, NWD intends to invest in technologies, services, 
operational improvements, and upgrades that will result in at least a 20% energy performance 
improvement in commercial buildings. Examples of intended projects include the installation of 
building and energy management systems, energy audits, feasibility studies as well as 
equipment upgrades in new  and existing buildings.   Sustainalytics considers NWD’s energy 
efficiency criteria to be in line with market practice.  
- The Renewable Energy category includes investments in solar and wind power projects as well 
as the procurement of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). NWD confirmed that procurement 
projects will be directly tied to specific and identifiable renewable energy projects, and exclude 
one-time, short-term purchases of unbundled RECs. 
- Under the Circular Economy and Waste Management category, NWD plans to install equipment 
and implement processes at its properties that will help reduce waste volume, divert waste from 
landfills, or promote recycling, upcycling, and composting on  site. Intended project examples 
include the installation of food decomposers and recycling facilities. In addition, the Company 
intends to invest in responsible sourcing of materials, such as timber certified by The Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) and The Progr amme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification 
(PEFC). (See Appendix 2 for further description of the referenced standards.) 
- Within the Climate Change Adaptation category, the Company may invest in the development of 
“Sponge Cities” 5  that aim to reduce flood risk and replenish groundwater , installation and 
upgrades of flood protection systems,  and climate observation and information support 
initiatives such as the adoption of climate risk scenario planning tools and third -party 
vulnerability assessments.  In 2019, NWD conducted a Climate Risk and Opportunities 
assessment to its major sites to identify the level of climate risk exposure of its properties, 
including heat stress, flood, water stress and extreme wind. Following the assessme nt, NWD 
developed an adaptation plan to enhance its buildings’ climate resilience, which includes the 
eligible projects listed above. Given NWD’s climate risk identification assessments and ongoing 
adaptation plans, Sustainalytics considers the objectives of this category to be robust, credible 
and impactful. 
- Sustainalytics notes NWD’s eligibility criteria under the following social categories: 
▪ Access to Basic Infrastructure and Essential Services : (i) Development of d rinking 
water infrastructure, sewage and sanitation services for public use, (ii) Investments in 
education and healthcare services and related infrastructure that are  free and  
accessible to the public, (iii) Financing small and medium enterprises ( SMEs)6 and 
groups facing natural and/or health disasters including but not limited to pandemics, 
earthquakes, floods and droughts. Intended project examples include the distribution 
of medical masks to low-income families during the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). 
NWD confirm ed that the SMEs and groups most affected by natural and health 
disasters would be identified through collaboration with NGOs and relevant entities on 
a case -by-case basis . Sustainalytics encourages NWD to provide disclosure on the 
identified groups and the projects financed in its annual reporting.  
▪ Affordable Housing: (i) Development of affordable housing and (ii) Provision of support 
for residents of affordable housing such as health programs and education initiatives. 
NWD has clarified to Sustainalytics that the eligible affordable housing projects target 
disadvantaged individuals or households  with a gross annual in come below 
approximately 50% of the national median income.7 Examples of these groups include 
individuals or house holds who are eligible under the social security allowance 8 and 
 
5 The Sponge Cities concept is designed to absorb and capture rainwater, and includes green rooftops, low elevation greenbelt, bioretention, rainwater-
based irrigation, and rainwater cisterns for flood prevention. 
6 SMEs refer to manufacturing enterprises with fewer than 100 employees and non-manufacturing enterprises with fewer than 50 employees, at: 
https://www.success.tid.gov.hk/english/aboutus/sme/service_detail_6863.html#:~:text=Manufacturing%20enterprises%20with%20fewer%20than,Stati
stics 
7 Median Income information can be found, at (General Household Survey, Census and Statistics Department): 
https://www.censtatd.gov.hk/hkstat/sub/sp150.jsp?productCode=D5250038 
8 Social Security Allowance eligibility income criteria, at : https://www.swd.gov.hk/en/index/site_pubsvc/page_socsecu/sub_comprehens/ 
 
 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
5 
other government allowances such as old age living allowance,9 disability allowance10 
and full rate working family allowance .11 Furthermore, NWD confirmed that intended 
affordable housing projects ensure access to target populations through the provision 
of affordable rent.12 Sustainalytics considers NWD’s targeted approach as aligned with 
market practices. 
▪ Socio-Economic Advancement and Employment Generation: (i) Project-based 
financing of startups and social enterprises 13  whose revenue is derived from 
businesses providing environmental and social impact in line with the Framework 
criteria, such as  capacity building programmes aimed at supporting the enterprises in 
achieving their environmental and social objectives, ( ii) Capacity building schemes in 
SMEs14 to improve the sustainability practices of enterprises , and (iii) Social mobility 
programmes that aim to strengthen young retired athletes’ career transition from sport 
into the labour market , mainly through training initiatives and specialized recruitment 
services.  
- NWD confirmed that the Company excludes  financing of enterprises, projects and operations 
associated with environmental and social risks such as fossil fuel, carbon-intensive activities, 
palm oil, weapons, tobacco, child labor and forced labor under the Framework. 
• Project Evaluation and Selection:  
- NWD will establish a Sustainable Finance Review Panel  that will be responsible for selecting 
eligible projects based on the criteria mention ed in the Framework.  This Panel will consist of 
representatives from NWD’s Finance & Accounts, Group Audit and Management Services, 
Project Management, and Sustainability departments. When needed,  the Company will also 
consult with senior representatives from NWD Property Management, NWCL and K11, which are 
wholly owned subsidies of NWD. 
- NWD’s CEO and t he Chairperson of the Group Sustainability Steering Committee will be 
responsible for providing the final approval of which projects will be eligible.  
- NWD’s approach to substantiate project eligibility includes obtaining data about environmental 
credits of eligible projects and assets, including performance related to energy, water, and waste 
reduction, expected environmental or health benefits, description of schematic design of 
projects and proof of pre-certification and certification documentation. 
- Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. 
• Management of Proceeds: 
- NWD will establish a register  where the Company will record details of funding transactions 
under this Framework. This register will contai n information on issuer/borrower entity 
transaction date, the principal amount of proceeds, repayment or amortization profile, maturity 
date, and interest or coup on. The register will also include information about allocation of 
proceeds such as details of eligible projects, amount of proceeds allocated to each project, and 
amount of unallocated proceeds . Unallocated proceeds will be held as deposits, such as cash 
and cash equivalents, in banks in accordance with NWD’s treasury or liquidity manage ment 
policy. 
- While Sustainalytics considers the above process as aligned with market practice, Sustainalytics 
encourages NWD to disclose the period over which they intend to allocate the proceeds raised. 
• Reporting: 
- NWD commits to disclosing annually, the allocation and impact of net proceeds raised under 
this Framework, on its corporate website, until the full allocation of proceeds. 
 
9 Old Age Living Allowance, at: https://www.swd.gov.hk/oala/index_e.html#s4 
10 Disability Allowance, at: https://www.1823.gov.hk/en/faq/what-are-the-eligibility-criteria-of-disability-allowance-what-is-the-amount-of-assistance-
payable 
11 Full Rate Working Family Allowance income criteria, at: https://www.wfsfaa.gov.hk/wfao/en/eligibility.htm 
12 For instance, as part of the LightBe affordable housing project that the Company invested in the past, rents were determined based on the income 
characteristics of individuals and households, and ranged between 20 – 70 % of the market rate. 
13 Definition of social enterprises in Hong Kong can be found at: https://www.legco.gov.hk/research-publications/english/essentials-1617ise05-social-
enterprises-in-hong-kong-and-the-united-kingdom.htm#endnote1. 
14  SMEs refer to manufacturing enterprises with fewer than 100 employees and non -manufacturing enterprises with fewer than 50 employees, at: 
https://www.success.tid.gov.hk/english/aboutus/sme/service_detail_6863.html#:~:text=Manufacturing%20enterprises%20with%20fewer%20than,Stati
stics 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
6 
- Disclosed impact information will include environmental indicators such as building/landscape 
certification achieved (system & level), energy consumption reduction (kWh), carbon emission 
reduction (tonnes of CO2e), water consumption reduction (m3), amount of waste reduced and/or 
diverted from landfills (tonnes) as well as social indicators such as number of beneficiaries of 
the various social projects and number of employment opportunities created. 
- Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. 
Alignment with Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018 
Sustainalytics has determined that the New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework aligns to the 
four core components of the Green Bond Principles (2018) and Social Bond Principles (20 20). For detailed 
information please refer to Appendix 2: Sustainability Bond/ Sustainability Bond Programme External Review 
Form. 
Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of NWD 
Contribution of Framework to NWD’s sustainability strategy 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NWD demonstrates a strong commitment to sustainability through its 
New World Sustainability Vision 203015  which is underpinned by four pillars; (i) Green: Environment Protection 
(ii) Wellness: Promotion of Healthy Living, (iii) Caring: Creating Shared Value for Communities, and  (iv) Smart: 
Technology Adoption and Promotion of Entrepreneurship. Sustainalytics highlights below practices of NWD 
that speak to the Company’s position as a credible sustainability bond issuer and demonstrates how the 
Company’s sustainability strategy aligns with the issuance of green, social and sustainability bonds. 
Under the Green pillar, NWD strives to reduce its adverse environmental impact, achieve operational resource 
efficiency, and mitigate and adapt to climate change impacts . NWD’s environmental targets include  the 
reduction of energy and carbon intensity by 50% by 2030 as compared to 2015 across the New World 
Group’s16 business properties; the reduction of water intensity by 25% as compared to 2015; and the reduction 
of waste to landfill intensity by 15% by 2030 as compared to  2015 within New World Development’s 
construction business.  NWD reports its progress on the mentioned targets in its 2019 Sustainability Report.17 
Some of the progress made by 2019 compared to 2015 baseline include following: (i) 21% reduction in energy 
intensity measured in MWh/ million HKD revenue, (ii) 29% reduction in carbon intensity (tCO2e/million HKD 
revenue), (iii) 8% reduction in water intensity (m3 /million HKD revenue) and (iv) 5% reductio n in waste to 
landfill intensity (tonnes/million HKD revenue).  In addition to its goals and performance, NWD supports Hong 
Kong's Long -term Decarbonization Strategy18  by participating in the Energy Saving Charter 19  as well as 
developing energy and carbon emission targets. NWD is also a signatory to Business Environment Council’s 
Low Carbon Charter20 and Hong Kong Green Building Council’s Advancing Net Zero movement21. 
 
Under the pillar of Wellness, NWD commits to improving community health by supporting innovative 
healthcare solution s such as healthy built environment, wellness ventures and programs. NWD’s wellness 
ventures and programs are carried out through its  WELL certified TM buildings, wellness centers, and 
rehabilitation businesses.  Under the pillar of Caring, NWD, seeks to improve the quality of life of 300 million 
people through nursing facilities, as well as education, cultural and community programs.   Additionally, to 
foster local entrepreneurship and intrapreneurship, NWD encourages the development of innovative solutions 
through research and development (R&D) initiatives, and its incubation and acceleration programs. 
Based on above practices of NWD, Sustainalytics is  of the opinion that the NWD Sustainable Finance 
Framework is aligned with the Company’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives and will advance the 
Company’s action on its key environmental and social priorities. 
 
15 New World Development, New World Sustainability Vision 2030, (accessed on 15 July 2020), at: https://sustainability.nwd.com.hk/sustainability-vision-
2030/  
16 New World Group includes New World Development (NWD), New World China Land Limited (NWCL) and K11, as well as construction businesses, NWS 
Holdings Limited (NWSH) and New World Department Stores (NWDS). 
17 New World Development, Sustainability Report 2019, December 2019, at: https://sustainability.nwd.com.hk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/NWD_SR2019_EN.pdf  
18 The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Public engagement on Long-term Decarbonization Strategy launched, June 2019, at: 
https://www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/201906/14/P2019061400309.htm 
19 Environment Bureau, The Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, About Energy Saving Charter & 4T Charter Schemes, accessed on 
August 2020, at: https://www.energysaving.gov.hk/esc2019/en/charter/index.html  
20 Business Environment Council, BEC Low Carbon Charter, (accessed in 15 July 2020), at: http://bec.org.hk/articles/bec-low-carbon-charter 
21  Hong Kong Green Building Council, Advancing Net Zero, (accessed in 15 July 2020),, at: https://www.hkgbc.org.hk/eng/global-movement/world-
gbc/advancing-net-zero/index.jsp 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
7 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
While the eligible categories are  recognized as impactful by the GBP and SBP, Sustainalytics is aware that 
such eligible projects could also lead to negative environmental and social outcomes such as waste generated 
during construction, land use and biodiversity issues associated with large -scale infrastructure projects, 
occupational health and safety  of workers, as well as  possibility of deteriorating community relations as a 
result of inadequate public consultation. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NWD is able to manage and/or 
mitigate potential risks through the implementation of the following:22  
NWD has integrated ESG risk identification and management considerations into its overall Corporate Risk 
Management Policy. Risk owners across the group are required to undertake and report risk review exercise, 
which includes reviewing ESG  related risks such as  - bribery and corruption, business ethics, occupational 
health and safety and climate change. Any material ESG risks identified are reported to NWD’s Sustainability 
Committee. The Company also has an early risk flagging mechanism, under which it facilitates the 
identification and assessment of emerging risks, including ESG related risks. Additionally, NWD established a 
sustainability governance structure, Sustainability Committee, which comprises two independent non -
executive directors and one executive director. This committee advises on the NWD’s sustainability strategy, 
and oversees the Company’s ESG r isks and opportunities with a focus on climate related risks and 
opportunities.  
 
Under its Health and Safety Policy, NWD commits to building a healthy and safe workplace for its employees.23 
In its construction business, the Company strive to ensure safety of employees and contractors in day to day 
operations and provides regular training on operational guidelines, quality control and environment, health and 
safety topics. 100% of NWD’s construction operations in Hong Kong are certified to ISO 14001 Environmental 
Management System and about 66% of its office building (gross floor area) in the Hong Kong portfolio are 
certified to ISO 50001 Energy Management System. 
 
NWD conducts internal and external stakeholder engagement to strengthen its ESG governance. The 
Company uses various channels such as surveys, interviews, focus groups, townhall meetings and forums to 
engage with multiple stakeholder groups , including employees, tenants, customers, supply chain, local 
communities, investors, the academic community, NGOs, government and peer companies . Furthermore, 
NWD confirmed to Sustainalytics that the Company implements local community consultation process before 
and during the design and development stages of large-scale infrastructure projects. 
 
Based on the mentioned systems, standards, and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NWD has 
implemented adequate measures and is well positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social 
risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
All ten use of proceeds categories are aligned with those recognized by GBP or SBP. Sustainalytics has 
focused on three areas below, where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. 
Importance of Promoting Sustainable Development in Hong Kong’s Building Sector  
In 2017, Hong Kong’s residential and commercial sector accounted for 93% of the region’s electricity 
consumption 24 and contributed to over 60% of the region’s total carbon emissions25. Furthermore, in 2017, 
air conditioning and lighting alone accounted for 42% of the regions’ electricity consumption. Recognizing the 
building sector’s large carbon footprint, Hong Kong has established the Energy Saving Plan for Hong Kong’s 
Built Environment, under which an emission intensity reduction target of 40% by 2025 as compared to 2005 
intensity levels has been established.26  Hong Kong has also launched the Hong Kong Climate Action 2030+ 
 
22 New World Development, Sustainability Report 2019, December 2019, at: https://sustainability.nwd.com.hk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/NWD_SR2019_EN.pdf  
23 New World Development, Health and Safety Policy, August 2020, at: https://sustainability.nwd.com.hk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Health_and_Safety_Policy_EN.pdf  
24 The residential sector used 27% while the commercial sector used 66% of electricity. EMSD, Hong Kong End -Use Energy Data 2019, September 2019, 
at: https://www.emsd.gov.hk/filemanager/en/content_762/HKEEUD2019.pdf 
25 Government of Hong Kong, Climate Ready, Hong Kong’s Climate Action Plan 2030+, January 2017, at: 
https://www.enb.gov.hk/sites/default/files/pdf/ClimateActionPlanEng.pdf 
26 Government of Hong Kong, Environment Bureau, Energy Saving Plan for Hong Kong’s Built Environment 2015- 2025+, May 2015, at: 
https://policy.asiapacificenergy.org/sites/default/files/EnergySavingPlanEn.pdf 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
8 
plan27 in 2017, under which it seeks to reduce the region’s carbon intensity by 65% to 70% by 2030 using 2005 
as the base year. This translates into a 26% to 36% absolute emission reduction for the country. 
Based on the above context, NWD’s investments in development and redevelopment of green buildings will 
help contribute meaningfully to Hong Kong’s climate goals while reducing the carbon footprint of the building 
sector. 
Importance of Waste Reduction and Climate Change Adaptation in Hong Kong 
In 2018, nearly 40% of Hong Kong’s total solid waste (amounting to 5.87 million tonnes) came from domestic 
sources and 25% consisted of construction waste, demonstrating the importance of facilitating proper waste 
management processes, especially in the construction sector.28 Hong Kong has established the ‘Blueprint for 
Sustainable Use of Resources 2013 – 2022’, under which the region seeks to reduce the municipal solid waste 
disposal rate by 40% by 2022 on a per capita basis. 29 Despite its efforts, Hong Kong has been experiencing 
challenges in expanding its waste processing capacity and improv ing the region’s recycling capabilities.30 . 
The region has been exporting most of its waste, which includes 90% of its recyclables, to Mainland China.31  
Following China’s 2018 regulation that bans imports of several types of unprocessed waste, the Hong Kong 
waste problem is expected to intensify.  
Hong Kong is a coastal port, with much of its densely populated urban areas located  in low lying areas or on 
reclaimed land,32 which makes the region vulnerable to sea level rise and storm surges. 33,34 In addition, the 
region has been experiencing an increase in annual mean temperatures, leading to heavier rainfall and 
increased year to year variability in drought.  35 Warmer, wetter and more extreme weather put immense 
pressure on the built environment. 36  Several of the recognized Green Building Certification schemes, not only 
help reduce environmental impacts but also increase resilience to the adverse effects of cl imate change, by 
facilitating mitigating and coping mechanisms such as stormwater management systems, rain -water 
harvesting, recycling and reuse of waste and sewage on site. 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics believes that NWD’s investments under the Waste Management and the 
Climate Change Adaptation categories will deliver a positive contribution to Hong Kong’s waste reduction 
efforts while improving Hong Kong’s urban built environment’s resilience to climate change impacts. 
Alignment with/contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable development by the year 2030. This sustainability bond advances the following SDG goals and 
targets:  
Use of Proceeds 
Category 
SDG SDG target 
Green Buildings 
11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities  
11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita 
environmental impact of cities, including by 
paying special attention to air quality and 
municipal and other waste management 
Green Landscapes 
 
11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities 
 
11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita 
environmental impact of cities, including by 
paying special attention to air quality and 
municipal and other waste management 
 
27 Government of Hong Kong, Climate Ready, Hong Kong’s Climate Action Plan 2030+, January 2017, at: 
https://www.enb.gov.hk/sites/default/files/pdf/ClimateActionPlanEng.pdf 
28 The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Environment Protection Department,  Hong Kong Waste Treatment and Disposal 
Statistics, (accessed on 16 July 2020), at: https://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/english/environmentinhk/waste/data/stat_treat.html 
29 Government of Hong Kong, Environment Bureau, Hong Kong’s ‘Blueprint for Sustainable Use Of Resources 2013 – 2022, May 2013, at: 
https://www.enb.gov.hk/en/files/WastePlan-E.pdf 
30 BBC, Hong Kong has a monumental waste problem, April 2017, at: https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20170427-hong-kong-has-a-monumental-waste-
problem 
31 https://www.reuters.com/article/us-hongkong-rubbish/hong-kong-drowning-in-waste-as-china-rubbish-ban-takes-toll-idUSKBN1FK0J4 
32 Climate Change Business Forum, How will Hong Kong be Affected by Climate Change?, (accessed on 16 July 2020), at: http://bec.org.hk/ccfb/en-
us/hong_kong_context_affected.html 
33 http://www.iccc.hk/pdf/Day%201/4.%20Mr.%20Shun%20Chi%20Ming,%20JP.PDF 
34 Xinhuanet, Hong Kong to strengthen ability to combat climate change, October 2018, at: http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-
10/18/c_138483562.htm 
35 http://www.iccc.hk/pdf/Day%201/4.%20Mr.%20Shun%20Chi%20Ming,%20JP.PDF 
36 Climate Change Business Forum, How will Hong Kong be Affected by Climate Change?, (accessed on 16 July 2020), at: http://bec.org.hk/ccfb/en-
us/hong_kong_context_affected.html 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
9 
 
Energy Efficiency   
Renewable Energy 
7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix 
7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of 
improvement in energy efficiency. 
Water Management 
6. Clean Water and 
Sanitation 
 
  
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water -use 
efficiency across all sectors and ensure 
sustainable withdrawals and supply of 
freshwater to address water scarcity and 
substantially reduce the number of people 
suffering from water scarcity. 
 
Circular Economy and 
Waste Management 
12. Responsible 
Consumption and 
Production 
12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste 
generation through prevention, reduction, 
recycling and reuse 
Climate Change 
Adaptation 
11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities 
 
 
 
 
 
11.b By 2020, substantially increase the 
number of cities and human settlements 
adopting and implementing integrated policies 
and plans towards inclusion, resource 
efficiency, mitigation and adaptation to climate 
change, resilience to disasters, and develop 
and implement, in line with the Sendai 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-
2030, holistic disaster risk management at all 
levels. 
 
Access to Basic 
Infrastructure and 
Essential Services 
3.Good Health and Well-
Being  
 
 
4. Quality Education 
 
 
 
3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, 
including financial risk protection, access to 
quality essential health-care services and 
access to safe, effective, quality and affordable 
essential medicines and vaccines for all. 
4.4 Substantially increase the number of youth 
and adults who have relevant skills, including 
technical and vocational skills, for employment, 
decent jobs and entrepreneurship.  
 
Affordable Housing 
11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities 
11.1 - By 2030, ensure access for all to 
adequate, safe and affordable housing and 
basic services and upgrade slums 
Socio-economic 
Advancement and 
Employment Generation 
8. Decent Work and 
Economic Growth 
8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the 
proportion of youth not in employment, 
education or training. 
Conclusion  
NWD has developed the New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework under which it will issue 
sustainability bonds and loans, and use the proceeds to finance and refinance eligible projects in the areas of  
(i) Green Buildings and Landscapes, (ii) Energy Efficiency,  (iii) Renewable Energy, (iv) Water Management, (v) 
Circular Economy and Waste  Management, (vi)  Climate Change Adaptation,  (vii) Access to Basic 
Infrastructure and Essential Services, ( viii) Affordable Housing, and ( ix) Socio-economic Advancement and 
Employment Generation . Sustainalytics considers that the projec ts funded by the bond proceeds will 
contribute to the reduction of g reenhouse gas emissions, promote sustainable resource management and 
provide social benefits in Hong Kong and Mainland China. 
The New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  outlines a process by which proceeds will be 
tracked, allocated, and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
10 
impact of the use of proceeds. Sustainalytics believes that the New World Development Sustainable Finance 
Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the company and that the use of proceeds 
categories will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), specifically 
SDGs 3,4,6,7,8,11,12,13,14 and 15. Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NWD has adequate 
measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the 
eligible projects funded by the use of proceeds. 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that NWD is well-positioned to issue sustainability bonds and 
that that New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  is robust, transparent, and in alignment 
with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles (2018) and Social Bond Principles (2020). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
11 
Appendices 
Appendix 1: Summary of referenced green building certification schemes 
 
 HK BEAM PLUS BREEAM LEED WELL Building 
Standard  
Living Building 
Challenge 
Background BEAM Society 
Limited (BSL) 
developed the 
Building 
Environmental 
Assessment 
Method (“BEAM”), 
namely the BEAM 
Plus assessment - 
a green building 
assessment tool 
tailor-made for the 
high-rise, high 
density-built 
environment of 
sub-tropical 
climate in Hong 
Kong. BEAM Plus 
assessment is 
Hong Kong’s 
leading initiative 
to offer 
assessments of 
building 
sustainability 
performance, with 
the Hong Kong 
Green Building 
Council being its 
certification body. 
BREEAM (Building 
Research 
Establishment 
Environmental 
Assessment 
Method) was first 
published by the 
Building Research 
Establishment 
(BRE) in 1990.  
 
Based in the UK, 
BREEAM is used in 
more than 70 
countries and this 
scheme can be 
used for new, 
refurbished and 
extension of 
existing buildings. 
Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental 
Design (LEED) is a US 
Certification System 
for residential and 
commercial buildings 
used worldwide. LEED 
was developed by the 
non-profit U.S. Green 
Building Council 
(USGBC) and covers 
the design, 
construction, 
maintenance and 
operation of 
buildings. 
WELL Building 
Standard (“WELL”) is a 
building certification 
issued by the 
International WELL 
Building Institute 
(IWBI); Comprehensive, 
third-party verified 
standard targeting the 
commercial and 
institutional office 
buildings. The WELL 
standards measure the 
health, well-being, 
productivity and the 
happiness of building 
occupants. In 2018, the 
WELL standard was 
updated to WELL V2, 
which makes some 
changes to the 
requirements and 
scoring compared to 
WELL V1. 
The Living Building 
Challenge is an 
international green 
building certification 
program and 
sustainable design 
framework run by the 
International Living 
Future Institute, a US 
non-profit organization 
seeking to tackle 
climate change by 
pushing for a built 
urban environment free 
of fossil fuels. 
Certification 
levels 
Bronze 
Silver 
Gold  
Platinum 
• Pass  
• Good  
• Very Good 
• Excellent 
• Outstanding 
Certified 
Silver 
Gold  
Platinum 
Core (V2 Only) 
Silver 
Gold 
Platinum 
Living Building 
Certification Petal 
Certification Net Zero 
Energy Building 
Certification 
Areas of 
Assessment: 
Environmental 
Performance of 
the Building  
• Site Aspects 
(location and 
design of 
building, 
emissions from 
the site, site 
management) 
• Materials 
Aspects 
(selection of 
materials, 
efficient use of 
materials, 
• Management 
• Energy  
• Land Use and 
Ecology  
• Pollution 
• Transport  
• Materials  
• Water 
• Waste 
• Health and 
Wellbeing 
• Innovation 
• Energy and 
atmosphere  
• Sustainable Sites  
• Location and 
Transportation 
• Materials and 
resources  
• Water efficiency  
• Indoor 
environmental 
quality  
• Innovation in 
Design 
• Regional Priority 
V1 
• Air 
• Water 
• Nourishment 
• Light 
• Fitness 
• Comfort 
• Mind  
 
V2 
• Air 
•  Water 
•  Nourishment 
•  Light 
• Place  
• Water  
• Energy  
• Health and 
Happiness 
Materials 
• Equity  
• Beauty 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
12 
waste disposal 
and recycling)  
• Energy Use 
(annual CO2 
emissions or 
energy use, 
energy efficient 
systems and 
equipment, 
energy 
management)  
• Water Use 
(water quality, 
water 
conservation, 
effluent 
discharges) 
• Indoor 
Environmental 
Quality  
• Innovations and 
additions 
 
•  Movement 
•  Thermal comfort 
•  Sound 
•  Materials 
•  Mind 
•  Community 
Requirements  Prerequisites for 
each performance 
area + Credits 
with associated 
points 
 
Detailed 
compliance with 
legal 
requirements is a 
prerequisite for 
the award of 
credits.  
 
For every 
performance area 
BEAM Plus 
prescribes 
different 
prerequisites. 
Every applicable 
prerequisite in 
every BEAM Plus 
category must be 
achieved for the 
project to be 
assessed.  
 
Credits are 
allocated for each 
performance area, 
and every area is 
weighted as per 
international 
consensus. The 
Overall 
Assessment 
Minimum 
requirements 
depending on the 
level of certification; 
scoring system 
weighted by 
category, producing 
a percentage-based 
overall score. The 
majority of BREEAM 
issues are flexible, 
meaning that the 
client can choose 
which to comply 
with to build their 
performance score.  
 
BREAAM has two 
stages/ audit 
reports: a ‘BREEAM 
Design Stage’ and a 
‘Post Construction 
Stage’, with 
different 
assessment criteria. 
Prerequisites 
(independent of level 
of certification) + 
Credits with 
associated points  
 
These points are then 
added together to 
obtain the LEED level 
of certification 
 
There are several 
different rating 
systems within LEED. 
Each rating system is 
designed to apply to a 
specific sector (e.g. 
New Construction, 
Major Renovation, 
Core and Shell 
Development, 
Schools-/Retail-
/Healthcare New 
Construction and 
Major Renovations, 
Existing Buildings: 
Operation and 
Maintenance).  
 
V1 
The building has to 
meet a minimum of 5 
preconditions to 
receive the Silver 
Certification, a 
minimum of 7 
preconditions to 
receive the Gold 
certification or a 
minimum of 9 to 
receive the Platinum 
certification. The 
preconditions comprise 
102 KPIs for the 
following quality 
indicators: Air, Water, 
Nourishment, Light, 
Fitness, Comfort, Mind 
 
V2 
Projects must achieve 
all preconditions, as 
well as a certain 
number of points to 
earn different levels of 
certification. Projects 
must earn a minimum 
of two points per 
concept. Projects may 
earn no more than 12 
points per concept. 
Point thresholds are 40, 
50, 60, & 80 for the four 
certification levels. 
The Living Building 
Challenge is organized 
into seven performance 
areas called Petals. 
Each Petal is further 
sub-divided into 
Imperatives, which 
address specific issues 
through detailed 
requirements. All 
Imperatives assigned 
to a Typology are 
mandatory. Living 
Building Challenge 
certification requires 
actual, rather than 
anticipated, 
performance 
demonstrated over 
twelve consecutive 
months. 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
13 
Grade is 
determined by the 
percentage (%) of 
the applicable 
credits gained 
under each 
performance 
category and its 
weighting factor. 
 
Verification of 
compliance with 
BEAM Plus criteria 
is done by an 
independent 
BEAM Plus 
assessor. 
Performance 
Display  
 
    
 
Appendix 2:  Certification Schemes for Forestry  
 
 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)37 Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification 
(PEFC)38 
Background The Forest Stewardship (FSC) is a non -profit 
organization established in 1993 that aims to 
promote sustainable forest management practice by 
evaluating forest management planning and 
practices independently against FSC’s standards.  
Founded in 1999, the Programme for the Endorsement 
of Forest Certifi cation (PEFC)  is a non -profit 
organization that promotes sustainable forest 
management through independent third -party 
certification, this includes assessments, endorsements 
and recognition of national forest certification systems. 
PEFC was created in resp onse to the specific 
requirements of small - and family forest owners as an 
international umbrella organization.  
Basic Principles • Compliance with laws and FSC principles 
• Tenure and use rights and responsibilities 
• Indigenous peoples' rights 
• Community relations and workers' rights 
• Benefits from the forests 
• Environmental impact 
• Management plans 
• Monitoring and assessment 
• Special sites – high conservation value forests 
(HCVF) 
• Plantations 
 
• Maintenance and appropriate enhancement of 
forest resources and their contribution to the 
global carbon cycle 
• Maintenance and enhancement of forest 
ecosystem health and vitality 
• Maintenance and encouragement of productive 
functions of forests (wood and no-wood) 
• Maintenance, conservation and appropriate 
enhancement of biological diversity in forest 
ecosystems 
• Maintenance and appropriate enhancement of 
protective functions in forest management 
(notably soil and water) 
• Maintenance of socioeconomic functions and 
conditions 
• Compliance with legal requirements 
Types of 
standards/benchmarks  
• Forest Management certification (for 
single/multiple applicant(s) – industrial or 
• Sustainable Forest Management benchmark – 
international requirements for sustainable forest 
 
37 Forest Stewardship Council, FSC Principles and Criteria for Forest Stewardship: https://ca.fsc.org/preview.principles-criteria-v5.a-1112.pdf 
38 PEFC, Standards and Implementation: https://www.pefc.org/standards-implementation 

Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
14 
private forest owners, forest license holders, 
community forests, and government-managed 
forests) 
• Small and Low Intensity Management Forests 
(SLIMFs) program (for small forests and 
forests that are managed at low intensity would 
be eligible)  
• Chain of Custody (CoC) certification (for supply 
chain companies’ planning, practices and 
products – all operations that want to produce 
or make claims related to FSC-certified 
products must possess this certificate)  
• Controlled Wood verification (for assurance 
that 100% virgin fiber mixed with FSC-certified 
and recycled fiber originates from a verified 
and approved source) 
management. National forest management 
standards must meet these requirements in order 
to obtain PEFC endorsement  
• Group Forest Management Certification – outlines 
the requirements for national forest certification 
systems who have group forest management 
certification 
• Standard Setting – covers the processes that must 
be adhered to during the development, review and 
revision of national forest management standards 
• Chain of Custody – outlines the conditions for 
obtaining CoC certification for forest-based 
products  
• PEFC logo Usage Rules – outlines the 
requirements entities must abide by when using 
the PEFC logo 
• Endorsement of National Systems – outlines the 
process that national systems must go through to 
achieve PEFC endorsement  
Governance The General Assembly is comprised of all FSC 
members and constitutes the highest decision -
making body. Members can apply to join one of three 
chambers – environmental, social, or e conomic – 
that are further divided into northern and southern 
sub-chambers. Each chamber maintains 33.3% of 
the weight in votes, and votes are weighted so that 
the North and South hold an equal portion of 
authority in each chamber, to ensure influence is 
shared equitably between interest groups and 
countries with different levels of economic 
development.  
 
 
PEFC’s governance structure is formed by the General 
Assembly (GA) which is the highest authority and 
decision-making body. It is made up of all PEFC 
members, including national and international 
stakeholders. In general, PEFC’s governance structure is 
more representative of industry and government 
stakeholders than of social or environmental groups. 
Members vote on key decisions including endorsements, 
international standards, new members, statutes and 
budgets. All national members have between one and 
seven votes, depending on membership fees, while 
international stakeholder members have one vote each.  
Scope FSC is a global, multi-stakeholder owned system. All 
FSC standards and policies are set by a consultative 
process. There is an FSC Global standard and for 
certain countries FSC National standards. Economic, 
social, and environmental interests have equal 
weight in the stand ard setting process. FSC follows 
the ISEAL Code of Good Practice for Setting Social 
and Environmental Standards. 
Multi-stakeholder participation is required in the 
governance of national schemes as well as in the 
standard-setting process. Standards and nor mative 
documents are reviewed periodically at intervals that do 
not exceed five years. The PEFC Standard Setting 
standard is based on ISO/IEC Code for good practice for 
standardization (Guide 59) 39  and the ISEAL Code of 
Good Practice for Setting Social and  Environmental 
Standards. 
Chain-of-Custody • The Chain-of-Custody (CoC) standard is 
evaluated by a third-party body that is 
accredited by FSC and compliant with 
international standards 
• CoC standard includes procedures for tracking 
wood origin 
• CoC standard includes specifications for the 
physical separation of certified and non-
certified wood, and for the percentage of mixed 
content (certified and non-certified) of products 
• CoC certificates state the geographical location 
of the producer and the standards against 
which the process was evaluated. Certificates 
also state the starting and finishing point of the 
CoC 
• Quality or environmental management systems 
(ISO 9001:2008 or ISO 14001:2004 respectively) 
may be used to implement the minimum 
requirements for chain-of-custody management 
systems required by PEFC 
• Only accredited certification bodies can undertake 
certification 
• CoC requirements include specifications for 
physical separation of wood and percentage-based 
methods for products with mixed content. 
• The CoC standard includes specifications for 
tracking and collecting and maintaining 
documentation about the origin of the materials 
• The CoC standard includes specifications for the 
physical separation of certified and non-certified 
wood 
 
39 ISO, ISO/IEC Guide 59:2019: https://www.iso.org/standard/23390.html 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
15 
• The CoC standard includes specifications about 
procedures for dealing with complains related to 
participant’s chain of custody 
Non-certified wood 
sources 
FSC’s Controlled Wood Standard establishes 
requirements to participants to establish supply -
chain control systems, and documentation to avoid 
sourcing materials from controversial sources, 
including: 
a. Illegally harvested wood, including wood 
that is harvested without legal 
authorization, from protected areas, 
without payment of appropriate taxes and 
fees, using fraudulent papers and 
mechanisms, in violation of CITES 
requirements, and others, 
b. Wood harvested in violation of traditional 
and civil rights, 
c. Wood harvested in forests where high 
conservation values are threatened by 
management activities, 
d. Wood harvested in forests being converted 
from forests and other wooded 
ecosystems to plantations or non-forest 
uses, 
e. Wood from management units in which 
genetically modified trees are planted. 
The PEFC’s Due Diligence System requires participants 
to establish systems to minimize the risk of sourcing raw 
materials from: 
a. forest management activities that do not 
comply with local, national or international 
laws related to: 
- operations and harvesting, including 
land use conversion, 
- management of areas with 
designated high environmental and 
cultural values, 
- protected and endangered species, 
including CITES species, 
- health and labor issues, 
- indigenous peoples’ property, tenure 
and use rights, 
- payment of royalties and taxes. 
b. genetically modified organisms, 
c. forest conversion, including conversion of 
primary forests to forest plantations. 
 
Accreditation/verification FSC-accredited Certification Bodies (CB) conduct an 
initial assessment, upon successful completion 
companies are granted a 5 -year certificate.  
Companies must undergo an annual audit and a 
reassessment audit every 5 years. Certification 
Bodies undergo annu al audits from Accreditation 
Services International (ASI) to ensure conformance 
with ISO standard requirements.  
Accreditation is carried out by an accreditation body 
(AB). In the same way that a certification body checks 
that a company meets the PEFC stan dard, the 
accreditation body checks that a certification body 
meets specific PEFC and ISO requirements. Through the 
accreditation process, PEFC has assurance that 
certification bodies are independent and impartial, that 
they follow PEFC certification procedures. 
 
PEFC does not have their own accreditation body. Like 
with the majority of ISO based certifications, PEFC relies 
on national ABs under the umbrella of the International 
Accreditation Forum (IAF). National ABs need to be a 
member of the IAF, which means they must follow IAF’s 
rules and regulations. 
 Qualitative 
considerations 
Sustainalytics views both FSC and PEFC as being robust, credible standards that are based on comprehensive 
principles and criteria that are aligned with ISO. Both schemes have received praise for their contribution to 
sustainable forest management practices 40 and both have also faced criticism from civil society actors. 41,42 In 
certain instances, these standards go above and beyond national regulation and are capable of providing a high 
level of assurance that sustainable forest management practices are in place. However, in other cases, the 
standards are similar or equal to national legislation and provide little additional assurance. Ultimately, the level 
of assurance that can be provided by either scheme is contingent upon several factors including the certification 
bodies conducting audits, national regulations and local context.   
 
 
40 FESPA, FSC, PEFC and ISO 38200: https://www.fespa.com/en/news-media/blog/fsc-pefc-and-iso-38200 
41 Yale Environment 360, Greenwashed Timber: How Sustainable Forest Certification Has Failed: https://e360.yale.edu/features/greenwashed-timber-
how-sustainable-forest-certification-has-failed 
42 EIA, PEFC: A Fig Leaf for Stolen Timber: https://eia-global.org/blog-posts/PEFC-fig-leaf-for-stolen-timber 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
16 
Appendix 3: Sustainability Bond / Sustainability Bond Programme - External 
Review Form 
Section 1. Basic Information 
Issuer name: New World Development Company Limited  
Sustainability Bond ISIN or Issuer Sustainability 
Bond Framework Name, if applicable: 
New World Development Sustainable Finance 
Framework 
Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics 
Completion date of this form:  October 21, 2020 
Publication date of review publication:  Update to March 2018 Sustainalytics SPO 
Section 2. Review overview 
SCOPE OF REVIEW 
The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review.  
The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP and SBP: 
☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and 
Selection 
☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting 
ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER 
☒ Consultancy (incl. 2nd opinion) ☐ Certification 
☐ Verification ☐ Rating 
☐ Other (please specify):   
Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review.  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) 
Please refer to Evaluation Summary above.  
 
 
Section 3. Detailed review 
Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment 
section to explain the scope of their review.  
1. USE OF PROCEEDS 
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
17 
The eligible categories for the use of proceeds – (i)Green Buildings and Landscapes, (ii)Energy Efficiency,  
(iii)Renewable Energy, (iv) Water Management, (v)Circular Economy and Waste Management, (vi)Climate 
Change Adaptation, (vii)Access to Basic Infrastructure and Essential Services, ( viii)Affordable Housing, and 
(ix)Socio-economic Advancement and Employment Generation – are aligned with those recognized by both 
the Green Bond Principles 2018 and Social Bond Principles 2020. Sustainalytics considers that the eligible 
categories will lead to positive environmental or social impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), specifically SDGs 3,4,6,7,8,11,12,13,14 and 15. 
 
Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: 
☒ Renewable energy ☒ Energy efficiency  
☒ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of 
living natural resources and land use 
☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity 
conservation 
☐ Clean transportation 
☒ Sustainable water and wastewater 
management  
☒ Climate change adaptation 
☒ Eco-efficient and/or circular economy adapted 
products, production technologies and 
processes 
☒ Green buildings 
☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to 
conform with GBP categories, or other eligible 
areas not yet stated in GBPs 
☐ Other (please specify): 
If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 
 
Use of proceeds categories as per SBP: 
☒ Affordable basic infrastructure ☒ Access to essential services  
☒ Affordable housing ☒ Employment generation (through SME financing 
and microfinance) 
☐ Food security ☒ Socioeconomic advancement and empowerment 
☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to 
conform with SBP categories, or other eligible 
areas not yet stated in SBP 
☐ Other (please specify): 
If applicable please specify the social taxonomy, if other than SBP: 
 
2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION 
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
NWD will establish a ‘Sustainable Finance Review Panel’ (“the Panel”) who will be responsible for selecting 
eligible projects based on the criteria mention in the Framework. This Panel will consist of representa tives 
from NWD’s Finance & Accounts, Group Audit and Management Services, Project Management, and 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
18 
Sustainability departments. When needed, the Company will also consult with senior representatives from 
NWD Property Management, NWCL and K11, which are wholly owned subsidies of NWD. 
NWD’s CEO and the Chairperson of the Group Sustainability Steering Committee will be responsible for 
providing the final approval of which projects will be eligible.  
NWD’s approach to substantiate project eligibility includes obt aining data about environmental credits of 
eligible projects and assets, including performance related to energy, water, and waste reduction, expected 
environmental or health benefits, description of schematic design of projects and proof of pre -certification 
and certification documentation. 
 
 
Evaluation and selection 
☒ Credentials on the issuer’s social and green 
objectives 
☒ Documented process to determine that 
projects fit within defined categories  
☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects 
eligible for Sustainability Bond proceeds 
☐ Documented process to identify and 
manage potential ESG risks associated 
with the project 
☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and 
selection publicly available 
☐ Other (please specify): 
Information on Responsibilities and Accountability  
☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to 
external advice or verification 
☐ In-house assessment 
☐ Other (please specify):   
3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS 
Overall comment on section (if applicable): 
NWD will establish a register where the Company will record details of funding transaction under this 
Framework. This register will contain information on issuer/borrower entity transaction date, the principal 
amount of proceeds, repayment or amortization profile, maturity date, and interest or coupon. The register will 
also include information about allocation of proceed such as details of eligible projects, amount of proceeds 
allocated to each project, and amount of unallocated proceeds. Unallocated proceeds will be held as deposits, 
such as cash and cash equivalents, in banks in accordance with NWD’s treasury or liquidity management 
policy.      
While Sustainalytics considers the above process as aligned with market practice, Sustainalytics encourages 
NWD to disclose the period over which they intend to allocate the proceeds raised. 
Tracking of proceeds: 
☒ Sustainability Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner 
☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds 
☐ Other (please specify): 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
19 
Additional disclosure: 
☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future 
investments 
☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements 
☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of 
unallocated proceeds 
☐ Other (please specify): 
 
4. REPORTING 
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
NWD commits to disclosing annually, or in case of any material changes, the allocation and impact of net 
proceeds raised under this Framework, on its corporate website, until the full allocation of proceeds. 
Disclosed impact information will include environmental indicators such as building/landscape certification 
achieved (system & level), energy consumption reduction (kWh), carbon emission reduction (tonnes of CO2e), 
water consumption reduction (m3), amount of waste reduced and/or diverted from landfills (tonnes) as well 
as social indicators such as number of beneficiaries of the various social projects and number of employment 
opportunities created. 
 
Use of proceeds reporting: 
☒ Project-by-project ☒ On a project portfolio basis 
☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): 
Information reported: 
☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Sustainability Bond financed share of 
total investment 
☐ Other (please specify):   
Frequency: 
☒ Annual ☐ Semi-annual 
☐ Other (please specify):  
Impact reporting: 
☒ Project-by-project ☒ On a project portfolio basis 
☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): 
Information reported (expected or ex-post): 
☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒  Energy Savings  
☒ Decrease in water use ☒  Number of beneficiaries 
☐ Target populations ☐  Other ESG indicators (please 
specify): Building/landscape 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
20 
certification achieved 
(system & level 
Amount of waste reduced 
and/or diverted from landfills 
(tonnes). 
Number of employment 
opportunities created 
 
Number of facilities built 
Frequency: 
☒ Annual ☐ Semi-annual 
☐ Other (please specify):   
Means of Disclosure 
☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability 
report 
☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): corporate 
website 
☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to 
external review): 
 
Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. 
 
USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) 
 
https://www.nwd.com.hk/ 
 
SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE 
Type(s) of Review provided: 
☐ Consultancy (incl. 2nd opinion) ☐ Certification 
☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating 
☐ Other (please specify): 
Review provider(s): Date of publication: 
  
 
 
ABOUT ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP AND THE SBP 
i. Second Party Opinion: An institution with sustainability expertise that is independent from the issuer may 
provide a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its 
Sustainability Bond framework, or appropriate procedures such as information barriers will have been 
implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion.  It normally entails 
an assessment of the alignment with the Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s 
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
21 
overarching objectives, strategy, policy, and/or pr ocesses relating to sustainability and an evaluation of the 
environmental and social features of the type of Projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. 
ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically 
pertaining to business processes and/or sustainability criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with 
internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally or socially 
sustainable featu res of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. 
Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of 
funds from Sustainability Bond proceeds, statement of enviro nmental or social impact or alignment of 
reporting with the Principles may also be termed verification. 
iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Sustainability Bond or associated Sustainability Bond framework or Use 
of Proceeds certified against a recognised external sustainability standard or label. A standard or label defines 
specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which 
may verify consistency with the certification criteria.  
iv. Green, Social and Sustainability Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Sustainability Bond, associated 
Sustainability Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified 
third parties, such as specialised research provider s or rating agencies, according to an established 
scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental and/or social performance 
data, process relative to the Principles, or another benchmark, such as a 2 -degree climate change scenario. 
Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material sustainability risks. 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
22 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2020 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herei n are proprietary of Sustainalytics 
and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form 
and format disclosed by Sustainalytics, or  provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is 
ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any 
product or project;  (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice  or a prospectus; (3) cannot be 
interpreted as an offer or indication to buy o r sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business 
transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations 
nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. 
These are  based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their 
merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up-to-dateness or fitness for a particular purpose. The information 
and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. 
Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions 
contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third 
party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not 
constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our third -party data providers and their 
respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, 
visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version 
shall prevail.  
Second-Party Opinion  
New World Development Sustainable Finance Framework  
  
 
  
 
23 
About Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company 
Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, 
ratings and analytics firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation 
of responsible investment strategies. For more than 25 years, the firm has been at the forefront of developing 
high-quality, innovative solutions to meet the evolving needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works 
with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate 
governance information and assessments into their investment processes. Sustainalytics also works with 
hundreds of companies and their financial intermediaries to help them consider sustainability in policies, 
practices and capital  projects. With 16 offices globally, Sustainalytics has more than 650 staff members, 
including more than 200 analysts with varied multidisciplinary expertise across more than 40 industry groups. 
For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com.