I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  1  o f  13  
 
 
 
PRE -ISSUANCE CLIMATE BOND 
CERTIFICATION  
 
 
Verification Report for Pre -Issuance Certification  
for the Green Bond Issued by New Zealand Green Investment 
Finance  Limited  
 
 
 
 
SCOPE  
New Zealand Green Investment Finance Limited (NZGIF) commissioned ICS to compile a Verifier’s 
Report for Pre-Issuance Certification of its Green Bond by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI). The 
Climate Bonds Certification process includes verifying whether the provisions of the Climate Bonds 
Standard issued by the CBI are met and obtaining evidence to support the verification. 
CRITERIA  
Relevant CBI standards for this Climate Bonds Certification:  
▪ Climate Bonds Standard (Version 3) 
▪ Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria (Version 2.1) 
ISSUER’S RESPONSIBILITY  
NZGIF’s responsibility was to provide information and documentation on:  
▪ Selection of nominated projects & assets 
▪ Technical aspects of projects & assets 
▪ Internal processes & controls 
▪ Proposed reporting  
  

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  2  o f  13  
ISS ESG ’s  VERIFICATION PROCESS  
ISS ESG is one of the world’s leading independent environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
research, analysis and rating houses. The company has been actively involved in the sustainable 
capital markets for over 25 years. Since 2014, ISS ESG has built up a reputation as a highly-reputed 
thought leader in the green and social bond market and has become one of the first CBI approved 
verifiers.  
We have conducted this independent Pre-Issuance Verification of the green bond issued by NZGIF 
based on the Climate Bonds Standard V.3. limited assurance procedures in accordance with relevant 
assurance standards such as the International Standard on Assurance Engagements, ISAE 3000 
revised - Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, 
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. 
Our approach to assess whether the issuer’s Green Bond meets the criteria of the Climate Bonds 
Standard V.3. is as follows: 
▪ The issuer provided an overview over the assets to be included in the Green Bond asset pool and 
the relevant processes and documentation regarding the proceeds (e.g. use of proceeds, 
management of proceeds) to ISS ESG.  
▪ The issuer filled in a questionnaire that covers all criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard V.3. 
▪ The issuer provided background documents that elaborate further on the information 
mentioned in the questionnaire.  
▪ Using the questionnaire and background documents, ISS ESG carried out an assessment of the 
CBI criteria. In case any answers were unclear, ISS ESG contacted the issuer for more details and 
clarification. 
The engagement with NZGIF took place in September 2022. 
OUR  BUSINESS PRACTICES  
We have conducted this verification in strict compliance with the ISS Code of Ethics, which lays out 
detailed requirements in integrity, transparency and objectivity for the ISS business and team 
members. It is designed to ensure that the verification is conducted independently and without any 
conflicts of interest with other parts of the ISS Group. 
RESTRICTION ON DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF REPORT  
This Verification Report for Climate Bonds Certification including all documentation provided 
alongside is intended for the use of NZGIF and the Climate Bonds Standard Board. The present 
document may be published by NZGIF, CBI, and ICS. CBI and ICS agree to publish the report with the 
consent of NZGIF.  
 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  3  o f  13  
OPINION  
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, nothing has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects the NZGIF Solar Note is not in 
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements. 
 
  
R O B E R T  H A ß L E R   
ISS ESG 
Munich, 23 November 2022 
 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  4  o f  13  
Disclaimer  
Copyright © 2022 Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (“ISS”). This document and all of the 
information contained in it is the property of ISS and/or its subsidiaries. The Information may not be 
reproduced or redisseminated in whole or in part without the prior written permission of ISS. While 
we exercise due care in compiling this document, we assume no liability with respect to the 
consequences of relying on this information for investment or other purposes. ISS makes no express 
or implied warranties or representations with respect to the information. 
 
About ISS ESG  
ISS ESG is one of the world’s leading rating agencies in the field of sustainable investment. The 
agency analyses companies and countries regarding their environmental and social performance.  
We assess alignment with external principles (e.g. the ICMA Green / Social Bond Principles), analyse 
the sustainability quality of the assets and review the sustainability performance of the issuer 
themselves. Following these three steps, we draw up an independent SPO so that investors are as 
well informed as possible about the quality of the bond / loan from a sustainability perspective. 
Learn more: https://www.isscorporatesolutions.com/solutions/esg-solutions/green-bond-services/ 
 
Contact  
Federico Pezzolato – Sustainable Finance Business Manager 
ISS Corporate Solutions, 1 London Bridge, London, SE1 9BG 
tel: +44 (0) 203 192 5760 
e-mail: SPO@isscorporatesolutions.com  
  
 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  5  o f  13  
ANNEX  
Annex 1: Detailed Findings 
Annex 2: Detailed Findings Solar Power 
  
 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  6  o f  13  
ANNEX 1: DETAILED FINDINGS  
1.  USE OF PROCEEDS  
 REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
1.1. Documentation of 
nominated projects & 
assets assessed as 
eligible.  
The issuer will finance solar assets distributed by 
developers through the NZGIF Solar Note, a 
product to be issued under the NZGIF Green 
Financing Framework that includes solar panels 
and battery storage systems, operational 
expenditures to provide installation and ongoing 
maintenance. A list of nominated projects and 
assets is not available at the time of this 
assessment because the facilities will be 
developed over the next 18 months after 
issuance.  
 
1.2. Net Proceeds are 
smaller than the 
issuer’s investment 
exposure to the 
Nominated Projects 
& Assets. 
The issuer confirms the loan-to-value ratio made 
to distributed solar developers and financed 
through the NZGIF Solar Note will range between 
50%-80%. This is managed through covenants in 
the loan agreements.  
The issuer expects to raise up to NZ$300m in total, 
in which NZ$250m will be from external investors, 
NZ$50m will be held by NZGIF. The issuer 
confirmed that all of the funds raised by the 
product will be provided to distributed solar 
developers.  
 
1.3. No duplicate 
nomination of 
Projects & Assets to 
multiple Certified 
Climate Bonds or 
labelled instruments. 
The issuer confirms the nominated solar assets are 
being funded by one CBI Certified Climate Bond/ 
Loans, and the CBI Certified Climate Bond/ Loans 
are not being refinanced via another labelled 
instrument.  
 
 
2.  PROCESS FOR EVALUATION AND SELECTION OF PROJECTS AND 
ASSETS  
 REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
2.1. Decision-making 
process to 
See below. N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  7  o f  13  
determine 
eligibility of 
nominated 
projects & assets, 
including: 
2.1.1. Statement on the 
climate-related 
objectives of the 
Bonds or 
instruments.   
The NZGIF Green Financing Framework supports 
accelerating and facilitating investment in 
emissions reductions in Aotearoa New Zealand. The 
NZGIF Solar Note will finance the installation of 
distributed solar PV generation assets backed by 
power purchase agreement, increase renewable 
generation capacity and reduce reliance on thermal 
generation in Aotearoa New Zealand. 
 
2.1.2. Climate-related 
objectives of the 
Bond in the 
context of the 
issuer’s 
environmental 
strategy and 
policies. 
The NZGIF Solar Note will support the issuer’s 
purpose to invest to enable Aotearoa New 
Zealand’s low carbon future.  
 
2.1.3. Issuer’s rationale 
for issuing the 
Bonds or 
instruments. 
The NZGIF Solar Note will provide qualifying 
investors the opportunity to co-invest alongside 
NZGIF to finance the growth of distributed solar PV 
generation in Aotearoa New Zealand. This aligns 
with NZGIF’s mission to increase renewable 
generation in Aotearoa New Zealand and crowd in 
the private capital.  
 
2.1.4. Process to 
determine 
eligibility of 
Nominated 
Projects & Assets 
Eligible Projects will be assessed against the 
eligibility criteria and NZGIF’s E&S risks 
management processes by the Management 
Investment Committee, and then be presented for 
approval by the Board.   
The issuer commits to obtain the appropriate post-
issuance assurance on the portfolio of solar loans 
to confirm its compliance with the selected criteria. 
 
2.2 Issuer should 
include under 
Clause 2.1 further 
aspects of the 
decision-making 
process, including: 
 
See below. 
N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  8  o f  13  
2.2.1 Related eligibility 
criteria to identify 
and manage 
potentially 
material ESG risks 
associated with 
the Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
The issuer has due diligence process for managing 
the ESG risks associated with the investment. The 
process includes an assessment of the technologies 
and suppliers used by the developer, as well as an 
investigation of the developer’s business practices 
against NZGIF’s ESG requirement. This includes the 
human rights policies in the solar panel 
manufacturing supply chain.  
 
 
2.2.2 Green standards 
or certifications 
referenced in the 
selection of 
Nominated 
Projects & Assets. 
No other green standards or certifications are 
referenced for solar assets. 
 
2.2.3 The issuer shall 
assess all 
Nominated 
Projects & Assets 
meet the 
documented 
objectives in 2.1.1 
and conform to 
the CBI eligibility 
requirements. 
Eligible Projects will be assessed against the 
eligibility criteria and NZGIF’s E&S risks 
management processes by the Management 
Investment Committee, and then be presented for 
approval by the Board.   
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  9  o f  13  
3.  MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS  
 REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
3.1 Systems, policies 
and processes 
around the 
management of 
Net Proceeds 
include: 
See below. 
N/A 
3.1.1. Process around 
management of 
the net proceeds  
The issuer has a Green Financing Instruments 
Register in place to record the allocations and 
track the use of proceeds of the issuance.  
 
3.1.2. Management of 
unallocated Net 
Proceeds 
NZGIF confirmed that the unallocated Net 
Proceeds will be held in temporary investment 
instruments that are cash, or cash equivalent 
instruments.  
 
3.1.3. Earmarking process 
used to manage 
allocation of 
proceeds and 
estimate of the 
share of the Net 
Proceeds being 
used for financing 
and refinancing.   
The issuer has a Green Financing Instruments 
Register in place to record the details of the Green 
Financing Instruments and the use of proceeds. 
The Register will be reviewed annually by the 
Chief Operating Officer to account for any re-
allocation, repayments or drawings on the eligible 
projects and expenditures within the pool. 
 
4.  REPORTING PRIOR TO ISSUANCE  
 REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
4.1 Confirmation that 
a Green Bond 
Framework will be 
publicly available. 
It should include 
without 
limitations: 
 The upcoming issuance is intended to be private, 
the issuer will make the Framework available to 
the investors. The Framework will be public if any 
public issuance is involved in the future.   
4.1.1 Confirmation that 
bonds issued under 
the framework are 
aligned with the 
The Framework mentions the issuer’s intention 
for its Green Financing Instruments to be aligned 
with the Green Bond Principles, Green Loan 
Principles, and the Climate Bonds Standard.  
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  10  o f  13  
Climate Bonds 
Standard and other 
standards. 
4.1.2 Summary of the 
use of proceeds 
and their 
contribution to the 
goals of the Paris 
Climate 
Agreement. 
The Framework includes details of the expected 
use of proceeds as well as how they contribute to 
the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement by 
emissions reductions.   
4.1.3 Description of the 
decision-making 
process. 
The Framework includes a description of the 
decision-making process, as outlined in Section 
2.2. 
 
4.1.4 Description of the 
relevant Sector 
Eligibility Criteria 
and any additional 
impact metrics. 
The Framework mentions the relevant CBI Sector 
Criteria as outlined in Section 2.5.2.  
 
4.1.5 Summary on the 
approach used to 
manage 
unallocated net 
proceeds. 
The Framework mentions that unallocated 
proceeds may be used for the payment of all or a 
portion of outstanding indebtedness, and/or 
temporarily invest in cash, cash equivalents, and 
short-term instruments or other capital 
management activities. NZGIF confirmed that the 
unallocated Net Proceeds will be held in 
temporary investment instruments that are cash, 
or cash equivalent instruments. 
 
4.1.6 Intended approach 
to provide Update 
Reports to reaffirm 
conformance with 
the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the 
Bonds or 
instruments 
remains 
outstanding.  
The Framework mentions that annual reporting 
will be provided until full allocation of the 
issuance. They will be subject to verification by an 
external auditor.  
 
4.1.7 List of proposed 
Nominated 
Projects & Assets 
associated with the 
Bond or 
instruments and 
the investment 
areas, as provided 
The Framework includes solar assets that falls into 
the solar energy sector of the Climate Bonds 
Taxonomy.  
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  11  o f  13  
in Clause 9.1, into 
which the 
Nominated 
Projects & Assets 
fall.  
4.1.8 An estimate of the  
proportion of 
financing and 
refinancing, and 
the expected look-
back period for 
refinancing. 
The Framework mentions a maximum lookback 
period for refinancing of 36 months. 
There is currently no estimate for the refinancing 
proportion of the upcoming bond. The refinancing 
proportion will be included in the annual impact 
reporting. 
 
4.2 Disclosure 
Documentation 
shall include: 
See below. 
N/A 
4.2.1 Investment areas, 
of the Nominated 
Projects & Assets  
The Framework includes the information about 
the investment areas and eligible categories in the 
Nominated Projects and Assets.  
 
4.2.2 Temporary 
investment 
instruments for 
unallocated Net 
Proceeds 
The Framework mentions that unallocated 
proceeds may be used for the payment of all or a 
portion of outstanding indebtedness, and/or 
temporarily invest in cash, cash equivalents, and 
short-term instruments or other capital 
management activities. NZGIF confirmed that the 
unallocated Net Proceeds will be held in 
temporary investment instruments that are cash, 
or cash equivalent instruments. 
 
4.2.3 Verifier’s engaged 
by the issuer for 
the mandatory 
verification 
engagements.  
The Framework mentions that ICS is 
commissioned to provide alignment assessment 
of the first financing facilities issued under the 
Framework, to be submitted for Climate Bonds 
Certification.  
 
4.2.4 Intended approach 
providing Update 
Reports to reaffirm 
conformance with 
the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the 
Bonds or 
instruments 
remains 
outstanding, 
including the 
location of the 
The Framework mentions that annual reporting 
will be provided until full allocation of the 
issuance. They will be subject to verification by an 
external auditor. 
The upcoming issuance is intended to be private, 
the issuer will make the annual reporting available 
to the investors. The annual reporting will be 
public if any public issuance is involved in the 
future. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  12  o f  13  
published 
documents. 
4.2.5 CBI Disclaimer 
provided in the 
Certification 
Agreement 
The NZGIF Green Financing Framework includes 
the CBI disclaimer provided in the Certification 
Agreement.  
 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  13  o f  13  
ANNEX 2 : DETAILED FINDINGS SOLAR POWER  
 
 
The Green Bond Asset Pool complies with the Solar Power criteria of the Climate 
Bonds Initiative. 
All onshore solar assets are eligible for the Climate Bonds Initiative. All of the assets 
do not have dedicated fossil fuel back up such as diesel generators.