Obvion N.V. 
POST-ISSUANCE VERIFICATION LETTER  
BUILDINGS CRITERIA OF THE CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD 
Type of engagement: Assurance Engagement 
Period engagement was carried out: March 2025 
Approved verifier: Sustainalytics 
Contact address for engagement: Haaksbergweg 58 – 1101 BH, P.O. Box 22703 – 1100 DE, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands  
Post-Issuance Engagement Team: Bhakti Chikhalikar, bhakti.chikhalikar@morningstar.com 
 
Scope and Objectives 
In February 2023, Obvion N. V.  (“Obvion” or the “Issuer” ) developed the Green STORM 2023 Green 
Bond Framework  (the “Framework”) under which it  issued a secured green collateral bond (the 
“Green STORM 2023”) to finance or refinance an existing mortgage loan portfolio of energy-efficient 
residential buildings. In March 2025, Obvion engaged Sustainalytics to review the projects financed 
or refinanced between March 2023 and end of February 2025 with the net proceeds from Obvion’s 
Green STORM 2023  (the “Nominated Projects”)  and provide an assessment as to whether the 
Nominated Projects meet the Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard  Version 
3.0.1 
The Nominated Projects include: 
• The acquisition and ownership of 1,946 residential buildings in Netherlands per end of 
February 2025 that were: 
- built before 31/12/2020 that have obtained a definitive energy performance 
certificate (EPC) of at least “A”; or 
- built as of 01/01/2021 that have obtained a definitive EPC of at least “A++++” to 
ensure that they have a net primary energy demand which is at least 10% lower 
than the requirement for nearly zero -energy buildings (NZEB), 2 and therefore 
comply with the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) standards for reduction in carbon 
emissions. 
 
Schedule 1 provides details of the Nominated Projects and disbursement of proceeds. 
Post-Issuance Evaluation Criteria 
Post-issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0: 
• Use of Proceeds 
• Evaluation and Selection of Projects , including conformance with the relevant Sector 
Criteria 
- Building Criteria3 
 
1 Climate Bonds Initiative, Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/Climate%20Bonds_Standard_Version%203_0_December%202017.pdf. 
2 Netherlands Enterprise Agency, “Energieprestatie indicatoren – BENG”, (2017), at: https://www.rvo.nl/onderwerpen/wetten-en-
regelsgebouwen/beng/indicatoren.  
3 Climate Bonds Initiative, Buildings Criteria, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/standards/Buildings/Low%20Carbon%20Building%20Criteria_V_1_1_July2020.pdf.  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
2 
▪ Location Specific Criteria for Residential Buildings4 
• Management of Proceeds 
• Reporting 
Issuing Entity’s Responsibility  
Obvion is responsible for providing accurate information and documentation relating to the details 
of projects, including description, total development cost of each project and disbursed amounts. 
Independence and Quality Control  
Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG and corporate governance research and ratings to investors, 
conducted the verification of Green STORM 2023  to provide an independent opinion on its  
conformance with the Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Sustainalytics has relied on the information and facts presented by Obvion with respect to the 
Nominated Projects. Sustainalytics is not responsible nor shall be held liable for any inaccuracies in 
the opinions, findings or conclusions herein due to incorrect or incomplete data provided by Obvion.  
Sustainalytics makes all efforts to ensure the highest quality and rigor during its assessment process 
and enlisted its Sustainability Bonds Review Committee to provide oversight over this assessment. 
Verifier’s Responsibility 
Sustainalytics conducted the verification in accordance with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 
and International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). 
The work undertaken as part of this engagement included conversations with relevant Obvion 
employees and review of relevant documentation to assess conformance of Green STORM 2023  
with the Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
Exceptions 
No exceptions were identified. All projects meet the Post -Issuance Requirements of the Climate 
Bonds Standard Version 3.0 and the Buildings Criteria. 
Conclusion 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, nothing has come to 
Sustainalytics’ attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, Green STORM 2023 
is not in conformance with the Post-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard.  
  
 
4 Climate Bonds Standard, “Location Specific Criteria for Residential Buildings & Calculator – Low Carbon Buildings Approved proxies for “top 
15%” Netherlands”, at: https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/Netherlands%20-%20Residential%20Proxy.pdf.  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
3 
Schedule 1: Overview of Nominated Projects 
All 1,946 mortgages in the portfolio are for residential buildings in the Netherlands that meet the 
following eligibility criteria:  
• Residential buildings in the Netherlands that were:  
- built before 31/12/2020 and have obtained a definitive EPC of at least A; or  
- built as of 01/01/2021 and have obtained a definitive EPC of at least A++++ to ensure 
that the buildings have a net primary energy demand which is at least 10% lower than 
the requirement for NZEB buildings. 
EPC portfolio distribution reflecting the outstanding loan amounts and percentage share  of number 
of loans:5 
EPC6 
Outstanding 
Amount 
(EUR million) 
Percentage 
Share of the 
Outstanding 
Amount 
Number of 
Loans 
Percentage 
Share of Number 
of Loans 
A++++ 6,443.49 1.24 23 1.18 
A+++ 2,624.96 0.50 9 0.46 
A++ 1,086.86 0.21 3 0.15 
A+ 5,396.23 1.04 17 0.87 
A 505,444.79 97.02 1,894 97.33 
Total 520,996.33 100.00 1,946 100.00 
 
 
  
 
5 Per end of February 2025. 
6 Sustainalytics notes that these certificates are based on the definitive certificates on the date of the respective loan’s inclusion in the 
portfolio. Sustainalytics further notes that, in some cases, energy certificates may have changed after the inclusion date. 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
4 
Schedule 2A: Post-Issuance Requirements of the 
Climate Bond Standard 
Use of 
Proceeds 
5.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be allocated to the Nominated Projects & 
Assets. 
5.2 All nominated Projects & Assets shall meet the documented objectives of the Bond 
as stated under Clause 6.1.1 and shall be in conformance with the requirements of 
Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
5.3 The Issuer shall allocate the Net Proceeds to Nominated Projects & Assets within 
24 months of issuance of the Bond, or the Issuer shall disclose in post-issuance 
reporting as per Clause 8.3 the estimated timeline for allocation of net proceeds to 
Nominated Projects & Assets. Net proceeds may be reallocated to other 
Nominated Projects & Assets at any time while the Bond remains outstanding. 
5.4 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other Certified Climate 
Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, 
green loans or other labelled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds) 
unless it is demonstrated by the Issuer that: 
5.4.1. distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & Assets are being funded by 
different Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt 
Instruments, green bonds, green loans or other labelled instruments; or 
5.4.2. the existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or Certified 
Climate Debt Instrument is being refinanced via another Certified Climate Bond, 
Certified Climate Loan or Certified Climate Debt Instrument. 
5.5 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds of the Bond are used for refinancing, the 
Issuer shall track the share of the Net Proceeds used for financing and refinancing 
and identify which Nominated Projects & Assets may be refinanced. This may also 
include the expected look-back period for refinanced Nominated Projects & Assets. 
5.6 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be tracked by the Issuer following a formal 
internal process which is documented in accordance with Clause 3.1. 
5.7 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be no greater than the Issuer’s total investment 
exposure or debt obligation to the Nominated Projects & Assets, or the relevant 
proportion of the total Market Value of the Nominated Projects & Assets which are 
owned or financed by the Issuer. 
5.8 Additional Nominated Projects & Assets may be added to, or used to substitute or 
replenish, the portfolio of Nominated Project & Assets as long as the additional 
Nominated Project & Assets are eligible under Part C of the Climate Bonds 
Standard and are consistent with the Bond’s objective as set out in Clause 6.1.1. 
5.8.1. Where additional Nominated Projects & Assets are covered by Sector 
Eligibility Criteria which were not included in the scope of either the Pre-Issuance 
Verification or the Post-Issuance Verification engagements, the Issuer shall engage 
a Verifier to provide a Verifier’s Report covering at least the conformance of the 
additional Nominated Projects & Assets with the relevant Sector Eligibility Criteria 
under Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Process for 
Evaluation 
and Selection 
of Projects & 
Assets 
6.1 The Issuer shall document and maintain a decision-making process which it uses 
to determine the continuing eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. This 
includes, without limitation: 
6.1.1. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond; 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
5 
6.1.2. How the climate-related objectives of the Bond are positioned within the 
context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes 
relating to environmental sustainability; 
6.1.3. The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond; 
6.1.4. A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & Assets meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard; 
6.1.5. Other information provided by the Issuer as described in Clause 2.2 
Management 
of Proceeds 
7.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be credited to a sub account, moved to a sub- 
portfolio or otherwise identified by the Issuer in an appropriate manner, and 
documented. 
7.2 The Issuer of the Bond shall maintain the earmarking process to manage and 
account for allocation of Net Proceeds to the Nominated Projects & Assets as 
described in Clause 3.1.3. 
7.3 While the Bond remains outstanding, the balance of the tracked Net Proceeds shall 
be reduced by amounts allocated to Nominated Projects & Assets. Pending such 
allocations to Nominated Projects & Assets, the balance of unallocated Net 
Proceeds shall be: 
7.3.1. Held in temporary investment instruments that are cash, or cash equivalent 
instruments, within a Treasury function; 
7.3.2. Held in temporary investment instruments that do not include greenhouse 
gas intensive projects which are inconsistent with the delivery of a low carbon and 
climate resilient economy; or 
7.3.3. Applied to temporarily reduce indebtedness of a revolving nature before 
being redrawn for investments or disbursements to Nominated Projects & Assets. 
Reporting – 
Post-issuance  
8.1 The Issuer shall prepare an Update Report at least annually while the Bond remains 
outstanding. 
8.1.2. The Update Report shall be made available to holders of the Bond and to the 
Climate Bonds Standard Board. 
8.1.3. The Issuer should provide an Update Report to holders of the Bond on a 
timely basis in case of material developments. 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
6 
Schedule 2B: Conformance to the Post-Issuance 
Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard7,8 
Requirement Factual Findings 
Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Use of 
Proceeds  
5.1 A list of Nominated Projects & Assets is provided in 
Schedule 1. 
 
5.2 The Nominated Project & Assets meets the documented 
objectives of the finance and are in conformance with the 
requirements of Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
5.3 The Net Proceeds have been fully allocated to Nominated 
Projects & Assets on the issuance date of the bond.  
5.4 Obvion confirms that the Nominated Projects & Assets 
have not be nominated to other Certified Climate Bonds, 
Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt 
Instruments, green bonds, green loans or other labelled 
instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds). 
5.5 Obvion confirms that it has tracked the share of the Net 
Proceeds used for financing and refinancing. 
5.6 Obvion’s Green Bond Framework documents that the Net 
Proceeds are tracked following a formal internal process.  
5.7 Obvion has confirmed that the Net Proceeds raised are no 
greater than the total investment exposure or debt 
obligation to the Nominated Projects & Assets which are 
owned or financed by the Issuer. 
5.8 N/A. 
5.8.1 N/A. 
None 
Process for 
Evaluation and 
Selection of 
Projects & 
Assets  
6.1 Obvion’s Framework documents a decision-making 
process which it uses to determine the continuing 
eligibility of the Nominated Projects & Assets. This 
includes, without limitation: 
6.1.1 A statement on the climate-related objectives of the 
financing; 
6.1.2 How the climate-related objectives of the financing 
are positioned within. the context of the Obvion’s 
overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or 
processes relating to environmental sustainability; 
6.1.3 Obvion’s rationale for issuing the bond; 
None 
 
7 Climate Bonds Initiative, Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/Climate%20Bonds_Standard_Version%203_0_December%202017.pdf. 
8 For ease of reference, the numbering in this section follows the numbering of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
7 
6.1.4 A process to determine whether the Nominated 
Project meet the eligibility requirements specified in 
the Climate Bonds Standard; 
6.1.5 Other information provided by Obvion as described in 
Clause 2.2. 
Management 
of Proceeds 
7.1 Obvion confirmed that Net Proceeds of the bond were 
credited to a sub account, moved to a sub- portfolio or 
otherwise identified by Obvion in an appropriate manner, 
and documented. 
7.2 Obvion confirmed that it maintained an earmarking 
process to manage and account for allocation of Net 
Proceeds to the Nominated Projects & Assets. 
7.3 Obvion has confirmed that proceeds were fully allocated 
immediately upon the bond issuance and therefore were 
not temporarily held in the Bank’s liquidity portfolio or 
used to repay outstanding indebtedness.  
None 
Reporting – 
Post-issuance 
8.1. Obvion is committed to preparing an Update Report at 
least annually while the financing remains outstanding. 
8.1.2 The Update Report will be made available to the 
lenders and to the Climate Bonds Standard Board. 
8.1.3 Obvion will provide an Update Report to the lenders 
on a timely basis in case of material developments. 
None 
 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
8 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2025 Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of 
Sustainalytics and/or content providers, and may be made available to third parties only in the form 
and format disclosed by Sustainalytics. They are not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use 
by India-based clients or users and  their distribution to Indian resident individuals or entities is not 
permitted. 
They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) shall not be considered as being a 
statement, representation, warranty or argument either in favour or against the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements that the issuer has made available to Sustainalytics for 
the purpose of this deliverable, in light of the circumstances under which such facts or statements 
have been pre sented; (2) do not constitute an endorsement of any product , project, investment 
strategy or consideration of any particular environmental, social or governance related issues as part 
of any investment strategy; (3) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice, or a prospectus, 
nor represent an “expert opinion” or “negative assurance letter” as  these terms are commonly 
understood or defined by any applicable legislation; (4) are not part of any offering and do not 
constitute an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of 
business transactions; (5) do no t represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, 
financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; (6) are not a substitute for professional advice; (7) 
past performance is no guarantee of future results; (8) have not been submitted to, nor  received 
approval from, any relevant regulatory body; (9) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering 
disclosure, unless otherwise agreed in writing. 
These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to 
their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up -to-datedness or fitness for a particular purpose 
Sustainalytics has not independently verified any such info rmation or data. The deliverables are 
provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics’ opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. 
Sustainalytics does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the statements in the 
deliverable to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations which may occur after the date 
of the opinion or any statements included in the opinion. Neither Sustainalytics/Morningstar nor their 
content providers accept any liability from the use of the informatio n, data or opinions contained 
herein or for actions of third parties in respect to this information, in any manner whatsoever, except 
where explicitly required by law. Sustainalytics does not assume any responsibility shall the bond 
default. Any reference to content providers’ names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their 
ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our 
content providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, 
visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 
Sustainalytics may receive compensation for its ratings, opinions and other deliverables, from, 
among others, issuers, insurers, guarantors and/or underwriters of debt securities, or investors, via 
different business units. Sustainalytics believes it has p ut in place appropriate measures designed 
to safeguard the objectivity and independence of its opinions. For more information, visit Governance 
Documents or contact compliance@sustainalytics.com.  
This deliverable, in particular the images, text and graphics contained therein, and the layout and 
company logo of Sustainalytics are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof 
shall require express prior written consent. Use shall be deemed to refer in particular to the copying 
or duplication of the opinion wholly or in part, the distribution of the opinion, either free of charge or 
against payment, or the exploitation of this opinion in any other conceivable manner. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
  
Post-Issuance Verification Letter  
Obvion N. V.  
  
 
 
© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
9 
About Morningstar Sustainalytics 
Morningstar Sustainalytics is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors 
around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. 
For more than 30 years, the firm has been at the forefront of  developing high-quality, innovative 
solutions to meet the evolving needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with hundreds 
of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds, which incorporate ESG and corporate 
governance information and  assessments into their investment processes. Sustainalytics also 
works with hundreds of companies and their financial intermediaries to help them consider 
sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. For more information, visit 
www.sustainalytics.com.