Verification details 
TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT: ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT 
WIND ENERGY FACILITIES CRITERIA OF THE CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD  
PERIOD ENGAGEMENT WAS CARRIED OUT: JULY 2023 
APPROVED VERIFIER: PACIFIC CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY – PACIFIC CREDIT RATING GROUP 
PRE-ISSUANCE ENGAGEMENT LEADER: DIANA VIA, DVIA@PCSLATAM.COM. 
 
INDEPENDENT LIMITED 
ASSURANCE REPORT 
 
 
 Parque Eólico Toabré 
 Panama City, Panama 
 July 2023 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Introduction 2 
2. Assurance Scope 2 
3. Performed Procedures 2 
4. Conclusion 2 
5. Limitations of Assurance Engagement 3 
6. Independence and Quality Control 3 
7. Annex A: List of Nominated Projects & Assets 4 
8. Annex B: Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 Pre-Issuance 4 
 

 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
1. Introduction 
This is an independent pre-issuance assurance report of the proposed US Dollar denominated bonds 
aggregating up to US$ 200,000,000.00 (“Green Bond”) by PARQUE EOLICO TOABRE, S.A. (PET), located in 
corregimiento de Toabré, Penonome District, Coclé Province,  Panama (“Issuer”) in accordance with the p re-
issuance requirements of “Limited Assurance” under Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
 
2.  Assurance Scope 
 
The objective of this assurance engagement is to obtain a Limited Assurance level of the internal procedures 
generated by PET to comply with the requirements of The Green Bonds Principles published by  International 
Capital Market Association, the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0, and the Sector Criteria for Wind projects 
published by Climate Bonds Initiative. The following principles have been included in the assessment: 
 
1. Use of Proceeds. 
2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection. 
3. Management of Proceeds. 
4. Reporting. 
 
3.  Performed Procedures 
 
Procedures undertaken for this verification included interviews with key staff and reviews of internal and public 
documents have been carried on the following aspects: 
• PCS´s review included an examination of the relevant procedures, policies, and processes, as well as 
verification of the data provided by the issuer. 
• The issuer provided an overview of the project nominated and the relevant processes and documentation 
regarding the proceeds (e.g., use of proceeds, management of proceeds) to PCS. 
• The issuer filled in a questionnaire that covers all criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
• The issuer provided background documents that elaborate further on the information mentioned in the 
questionnaire. 
• Using the questionnaire and background documents, PCS carried out an assessment of the CBI criteria. 
In case any answers were unclear, PCS contacted the issuer for more details and clarification. 
 
4.  Conclusion 
 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, PCS states the following conclusion 
about PET’s Green Bond in relation to the wind energy operations in Panama, and the limitations of our assurance 
engagement: 
 
Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that PET’s Green Bond, in terms of use of proceeds, 
process or evaluation and selection, internal processes and controls for the management of proceeds and 
reporting prior to issuance, does not meet the requirements of The Green Bond Principles, the Climate Bonds 
Standard Version 3.0 and the Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria (Version 1.3) published by Climate Bonds Initiative. 
  
 
3 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
5. Limitations of Assurance Engagement 
This assurance engagement was limited to the Pre-Issuance of PET’s Green Bond; therefore, our procedures did 
not constitute an examination or evaluation of the following: 
• Data and information beyond the defined reporting boundary and period. 
• Credit rating and financial performance and of the prospective issuer. 
• Environmental, social, or governance impact of the proposed projects/investments, except to the extent 
required for compliance with Climate Bonds Initiative Version 3.0. 
 
6. Independence and Quality Control 
As an approved verifier by the Climate Bonds Initiative, PCS ensures that the results of the independent Pre -
Issuance Verification Report are of the highest quality and reflect an impartial review process of Climate Bonds 
Standards Version 3.0. 
PCS carried out Limited Assurance procedures in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE 3000) established by the International Auditing and Assurance Board (IAASB) of the 
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).  
PCS nor any member of the verifier team is involved in any way in the issuance or management of the Green 
Bond. PCS has applied internal procedures to confirm no conflicts of interest for this verification engagement. 
 
7. Issuers’ Responsibility 
PET was responsible for providing information and preparing the Framework for the Green Bond relating to: 
• The details concerning the selection process for the nominated project. 
• The details of the nominated project and methodology applied. 
• The management systems for internal process and control for nominated project. 
• The details of commitments for reporting prior to issuance, including investment areas, management of 
unallocated proceeds and frequency of periodic Assurance Engagements. 
 
8. Verifier’s Responsibility 
The work undertaken by PCS as part of this Limited Assurance Engagement of Climate Securities Certification 
Pre-Issuance Requirements included the assessment of the following: 
• Conformance of PET’s Green Bond with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
• Conformance with the Technical Criteria on Wind Energy. 
• Conformance with the Internal Processes & Controls requirements. 
• Conformance with Reporting Prior to Issuance requirements. 
 
 
 
Diana Via 
Head of Sustainability of Pacific Corporate Sustainability (PCS) 
Pacific Credit Rating Group 
 
  

 
4 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
Annex A: List of Nominated Projects & Assets 
 
The proceeds of the Green Bond will be used for refinancing existing debt of the Issuer and finance the future 
stages of the project development. The Toabré Wind Farm (PET) is the first wind energy project in the mountains 
of Panama and the second of its kind in t he country. It is located in the corregimiento of Toabré, district of 
Penonomé, province of Coclé and will be executed in three phases with a total of 110 MW of installed power.  
The project has a definitive license for the operation, maintenance, generation, and sale of electricity with a  
capacity of 110 MW of which 66MW have been installed generating a total of 240 GWh / year.  
PET plans to develop the following phases II and III to reach 110 MW of licensed capacity, which contributes to 
SDGs 7, 9 and 13, as well as to Panama's energy transition .  In 2022 the project contributed to the reduction 
of 43,824 TonCO2eq. 
 
Annex B: Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 Pre-Issuance 
Certification Checklist 
 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
1 USE OF 
PROCEEDS 
1.1 
According to PET´s Green Bond Framework, the net proceeds will 
be used for refinancing an existing syndicated loan agreement for 
the construction and commissioning of Toabré Wind Farm Project 
and finance the development and start-up of the following phases 
of the wind project, established in the definitive generation license.  
The Nominated Project & Asset conform to Eligible Sector Criteria 
of Wind generation facilities.   The issuance is up to US$ 
200,000,000.00 and will be distributed as follows: 62 % for 
refinancing and 38% to financing the future stages of the project.  
This distribution will be showed within annual reports. 
Meets 
1.2. 
PET confirmed that the foreseen net income of the issuance will not 
be greater than the total exposure of the issuer's investment to the 
proposed projects and Nominated Assets.  
 
Meets 
1.3 PET confirmed that the project has not been nominated for other 
climate finance tools: certificates, climate loans, certified climate 
debt instruments, green bonds, green loans, or other labeled 
instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds). 
Meets 1.3.1 
1.3.2 
 
 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
2 
PROCESS FOR 
EVALUATION 
AND 
SELECTION 
OF PROJECTS 
AND ASSETS 
2.1 
PET has established a documented process to nominate eligible 
projects and assets associated with this issuance  based on 
environmental objectives and criteria, and compliant with relevant 
sector eligibility criteria of the Climate Bond Standards.  
Meets 
2.1.1 
The objective of the issuance of PET´s Green Bonds is to contribute 
to the generation of renewable energy and thus promote 
Panamas´s energy transition. PET exhibits a strong commitment to 
mitigate climate change and achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals. During its first year t he project resulted in  emissions 
reductions of at least 43,824 tCO2eq. 
Meets 
2.1.2 PET operations generate a wind energy, replacing other non -
renewable energy sources in the Panama electricity grid, therefore Meets 
 
5 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
contributing to diversifying the country energy matrix so  it can 
advance on its objectives of greater access to energy efficiency, 
energy security and decarbonization of the system as central 
aspects of the Panama climate strategy. 
This issuance contributes to the Energetic Plan of The Panama 
Government 2015-2050. 
2.1.3 
PET maintains its commitment to climate change mitigation and 
sustainable development goals. The Issuer, PET intends to use 100% 
of the proceeds for financing and refinance eligible Green Project. 
Meets 
2.1.4 
Processes to determine whether the Nominate Projects and Assets 
meet the eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the CBI 
Standards v.3. are in place. 
The project is focused on ensuring compliance with the social and 
environmental goals of the project, including compliance with the 
Equator Principles that establish guidelines for the management of 
environmental and social risks. 
The Nominated Projects & Assets fall into the “Wind” as included in 
the Climate Bonds Taxonomy  and meet the specific eligibility 
requirements provided in the Wind Sector Eligibility Criteria 
document. 
Meets 
2.2 PET aspects of the decision-making process are described in 2.2.1, 
2.2.2 and 2.2.3.  
2.2.1 
To ensure a diligent project evaluation and selection process, PET 
has identified renewable energy project criteria and potential 
environmental and social risks associated with the project. 
Meets 
2.2.2 The projects do not have any green standards or certifications.  Does not Meet 
2.2.3 
PET has assessed that the proposed Nominated Project & Asset 
meet the documented objectives as stated under Clause 2.1.1 and 
are likely to conform to the relevant eligibility requirements under 
Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard, as  PCS has put in place a 
diligent project evaluation and selection process. (See 2.2.1). 
Meets 
 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
3 MANAGEMENT 
OF PROCEEDS 
3.1 The net proceeds are appropriately tracked by PET and 
documented (see points 3.1.1., 3.1.2., and 3.1.3.). Meets 
3.1.1 
The net proceeds will be appropriately tracked by  PET and 
documented.  
A Guarantee Trust has been established with the objective of 
guaranteeing the Series A and any other series that is thus 
determined of the Bond Program. 
PET has appointed PRIVAL TRUST, S.A., to function as trustee for the 
purposes of administering the assets and rights contributed and that 
are transferred to the Trustee by the Issuer or by third parties, so 
that they are subject to the Public Offering of the Revolving 
Program of Corporate Green Bonds. 
Meets 
3.1.2 
Unallocated Net Proceeds will be managed in compliance with the 
requirements in Clause 7.3. of CBI standards: Unallocated proceeds 
will be used for the development and start -up of the following 
phases of the Wind Project, established in the definitive generation 
license. 
Meets 
3.1.3 
PET has an earmarking process reflected in the management the 
nominated project , which will be published in the annual Green 
Bond Impact Reporting. 
Meets 
 
6 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
4 
REPORTING 
PRIOR TO 
ISSUANCE 
4.1 PET Green Bond  Framework will be found  here: 
https://petoabre.com/ Meets 
4.1.1 
a. The issuer will base its management system on the ICMA 
(International Capital Market Association) Green Bond 
Principles and the Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0 
standards. 
b. Likewise, PET has certifications of emission reductions in a total 
of 43,824 tCo2e avoided in that period. 
Meets 
4.1.2 
PCS confirms that PET’s Green Bond  Framework includes a 
summary of the expected use of proceeds’ contribution to achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
The Green Bond will be allocated to cancel the entire Syndicated 
Loan Agreement used for the construction and commissioning of 
the Toabré Wind Farm Project and for the financing of future 
stages of development , located in Penonomé, province of Coclé , 
Panama. The eligible projects will inc rease in 110 MW  the 
installed capacity of renewable energy in the Panamanian power 
mix and, consequently, the reduction of at least 43,824 
TonCO2eq. 
Meets 
4.1.3 
PCS confirms that PET Green Bond  Framework includes a 
descriptive decision-making process to ensure a diligent project 
evaluation and selection process as stated in 2.1. 
The selection process of eligible projects will fall on the 
management of the company and its Board of Directors. 
The company has functional support areas that are responsible for 
complying with the Environmental Management and Adaptation 
Programs and ensuring compliance with the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). 
The eligible projects will be those that generally contribute to the 
expansion of Panama's energy matrix through wind energy. 
The projects include Occupational Health and Risk Plans, 
Contingency and Emergency Plans and Traffic Management 
Programs, prepared based on the World Bank's General 
Guidelines on Environment, Health and Safety. 
PET has explicit and relevant technical eligibility criteria for the 
type of eligible asset, such as the following:  Monthly and annual 
environmental and social management reports based on 
international standards, such as the IFC Environmental a nd Social 
Sustainability Performance Standards. 
 
Meets 
4.1.4 
PCS confirms that PET´s Green Bond  Framework includes a 
description of the relevant Sector Eligibility Criteria, as well as 
relevant impact metrics, on which PET intends to report on. 
Meets 
4.1.5 PCS confirms that PET’s Green Bond Framework clearly states the 
approach used to managed unallocated net proceeds. Meets 
4.1.6 
PET will prepare a report with the details of the total allocation 
of proceeds (including a breakdown by project category and 
revenue allocation). The company will annually publish a set of 
sustainability indicators to inform about the project’s contributions 
to environmental development. The indicators are described in the 
Green Bond Framework. 
Meets 
4.1.7 The Green Bond Framework  specifies that the bond will finance Meets 
 
7 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
and refinance the implementation  and future stages of Toabré 
Wind Farm (PET). There are no limits specified on the amount of 
information that can be submitted for the nominated project. 
4.1.8 
According to the informative prospectus, the net proceeds will be 
invested during the term of the Green Bond issuance and will be 
used to refinance current debt, finance project of the following 
phases of the wind project . The issuance will be distributed as 
follows: 62% for refinancing and 38% to financing the future 
stages of the project.  
Meets 
4.2 PET Disclosure Documentation meets the  criteria defined by the 
CBI Standards Version 3. Meets 
4.2.1 
PET indicated that it seeks to promote the establishment , 
acquisition, expansion and / or ongoing management of an 
onshore wind energy facility. 
Meets 
4.2.2 
PET´s Prospectus will state the intended types of temporary 
investment instruments for the management of unallocated Net 
Proceeds, which will be used for the development and start-up of 
the following phases of the Project, established in the definitive 
generation license 
Meets 
4.2.3 
PET’s Prospectus will state that issuances are backed by two layers 
of external reviews to ensure maximum transparency and 
certainty for investors: 
- Layer one, Second Party Opinion by PCS 
- Layer two, CBI Verification 
Meets 
4.2.4 
PET’s Reports will state that PET will reaffirm conformance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard while the Green Bond remains  
outstanding and will be available onto their website. 
Meets 
4.2.5 PET confirmed that the prospectus or final terms will include a CBI 
disclaimer provided in the Certification Agreement. Meets 
 
 
 
 
  
 
8 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
 
  
Disclaimer 
The intellectual property rights to this Verification Report are vested exclusively in Pacific Corporate 
Sustainability. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Pacific Corporate Sustainability, no part of this 
report may be reproduced, disseminated, or published in any way or by any means.  
Nothing contained in this Report shall be interpreted as to make a warranty, express or implied, regarding the 
advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. Furthermore, this Report 
shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the financial performance and credit worthiness 
of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds.  
The client is fully accountable for certifying and safeguarding its commitments` fulfillment, execution, and 
monitoring. 
About Pacific Corporate Sustainability (PCS) 
PCS has the objective of integrating sustainability standards into business strategies, based on global trends 
with potential investors and society. PCS belongs to Pacific Credit Rating Group (PCR), the only rat ing group 
with a real and direct international presence in Latin America, with 27 years of experience providing quality 
service in the region. 
The PCR Group is a signatory member of the Principles 
of Responsible Investment promoted by the United 
Nations, being the only Latin American rating group that 
is part of the Financial Rating Agencies Initiative at a 
global level. It has also been recognized as a supporting 
institution for the Financial Initiative of the United Nations 
Environment Program (UNEP FI) to promote sustainable 
finance. 
PCR Group has been certified by the Climate Bonds 
Standard Board as an approved verifier organization 
since March 2020. This accreditation has reinforced its 
commitment to promote sustainable finance in the region, 
highlighting the generation of awareness and 
benchmarking of good practices. 
 
 
 
www.pcslatam.com 
 contacto@pcslatam.com 
 Pacific Corporate Sustainability