ACOB LIGHTING TECHNOLOGY LIMITED’S 
 ₦1.51 BILLION GREEN DEBT ISSUANCE 
 
2023 PRE-ISSUANCE VERIFICATION FINAL REPORT 
30 December 2023 
 

 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      2 
 
 
 
Table of Content 
 
1.0 INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................................ 3 
2.0 BACKGROUND .............................................................................................................................................. 3 
3.0 SCOPE OF ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT ................................................................................................. 5 
4.0 OUR APPROACH ........................................................................................................................................... 5 
5.0 LIMITATIONS ................................................................................................................................................ 6 
6.0 MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY ........................................................................................................ 6 
7.0 VERIFIER’S RESPONSIBILITY ................................................................................................................... 6 
8.0 INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL .......................................................................................... 6 
9.0 CONCLUSION................................................................................................................................................. 7 
10.0 APPENDIX .................................................................................................................................................. 8 
Appendix A: List of Nominated Projects & Assets..................................................................................... 8 
Appendix B – List of Documents Reviewed ................................................................................................. 8 
Appendix C: Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist .............. 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      3 
 
PRE-ISSUANCE VERIFICATION REPORT 
 
1.0 INTRODUCTION  
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited (“ACOB”, “the Company” or “the Sponsor) engaged Agusto & Co. Limited 
(“Verifier” or “Agusto  & Co ”) to provide an independent Pre-issuance Verification report on the ACOB 
Lighting Technology Limited’s Green Bond Framework ( “the Framework”), the eligibility and readiness of 
projects and assets being financed to meet the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 and Solar Sector 
Criteria Version 2.3 for the proposed green debt issuance. 
 
This is an independent pre -issuance assurance report of the ₦1.51 billion Green Debt Issuance by ACOB 
Solar Hybrid Mini Grids 1 Ltd  (“Project SPV” or “the Issuer”) sponsored by ACOB Lighting Technology 
Limited and guaranteed by Infrastructure Credit Guarantee Company Limited (“InfraCredit” or Guarantor”) 
in accordance with the pre -issuance requirements of Limited Assurance under Climate Bonds Standard 
Version 4.0. 
 
We have not performed any work, and do not express any conclusion, over the performance of the Green Bond 
outside the scope outlined in this document. 
 
2.0 BACKGROUND 
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited is a renewable energy company founded in 2016 to provide sustainable 
electricity to underserved and unserved communities. The Company offers Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) services for high -density energy -efficient LED streetlights & electrification 
infrastructure, solar mini-grids solutions and solar home systems.  The Company has been involved in the 
construction of 13 mini -grid projects, nine of which were done as an EPC contractor under the Rural 
Electrification Fund Program with a total solar PV capacity of 910 kWp.  ACOB plans to deploy 
approximately 57 mini-grids over the next five years in different phases. This will increase the Company's 
mini-grid (isolated and interconnected) projects to 70. The Company has identified the various sites for its 
expansion and commenced key stakeholders' engagement. 
 
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited p lans to develop, operate and maintain seven hybrid solar mini-grids 
in selected communities in Edo and Ondo States (the ‘Project”). ACOB has established a special purpose 
vehicle as the Issuer , ACOB Solar Hybrid Mini Grids 1 Ltd  (“Project SPV”), to ringfence the Project from 
existing operations and for ease of capital raise. The seven hybrid solar mini-grid projects will have a total 
solar PV capacity of 335 kilowatts (KW)  and are expected to serve circa 3,597 households and businesses 
in off-grid communities in Edo and Ondo states in Nigeria. 
 
The Project SPV shall as co -obligor, issue the debt instruments having an aggregate nominal value of 
₦1,510,000,000 (One Billion, Five Hundred and Ten Million Naira) (the “Debt Issue”) under the Guarantor’s 
Clean Energy Funding Programme which aims to catalyse private and public sector investment to support 
Nigeria’s clean energy goals and increase energy access for unserved and underserved population . 
 
InfraFunding SPV Limited (“ InfraFunding”) is a special purpose vehicle established to constitute a multi -
issuer debt issuance program under which certain private debt instruments of a nominal aggregate amount 
not exceeding ₦200,000,000,000 (Two Hundred Billion Naira) may be issued to domestic institutional 
investors from time to time by the Issuer, for the benefit of eligible underlying beneficiary entities/co -
obligors, in such tranches and/or series, by way of private placem ent, and in such proportions, on  such 
dates and time and on such terms and conditions including without limitation, coupon rates and maturities 
as may be determined by the Issuer (the “Programme”). 
 
To enhance the credit rating of the Debt Instruments and facilitate the full subscription of 50% of the 
Bonds by institutional investors, the Guarantor (Infra Credit) has agreed to provide an irrevocable and 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      4 
 
unconditional guarantee of up to ₦755,000,000 (Seven Hundred and Fifty-Five Million Naira) of the Bonds 
(“Guaranteed Bonds”) constituting parts of the Debt Issue to guarantee the obligations under a deed of 
guarantee (the “Guarantee”).  The remaining 50% of the Debt Issue is being supported by the Climate 
Finance Blending Facility (the “Facility”), a catalytic first loss multi -donor facility seeded with £10 million 
concessional funding by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (“FCDO”) to co -finance 
clean energy investments on a 50:50 basis alongside InfraCredit’s local currency guarantees in  Nigeria. 
 
The Facility will help de-risk, reduce the capital cost and catalyse domestic institutional investment from 
insurance companies, local pension funds, and other asset managers including low-carbon energy-focused 
funds, to scale up private sector financing of affordable local currency capital for eligible off -grid clean 
energy infrastructure for unserved and underserved markets by providing returnable blended lower -
interest rate subordinated debt capital.  The Climate Finance Blending Facility will provide cou nterpart 
funding by subscribing to  Loan Notes of a principal amount of ₦755,000,000 (Seven Hundred and Fifty -
Five Million Naira) in equivalent value with the Guaranteed Bonds. 
 
The SPV intends to issue up to ₦1.51 billion as a Green Debt Issuance consisting of two tranches (Tranche 
A - ₦755 million 7-Year Guaranteed Fixed Rate Senior Infrastructure Bonds Due 20 30 and Tranche B - 
₦755 million 7-Year Fixed Rate Subordinated Loan Due 2030 to be subscribed by the Climate Finance 
Blending Facility) . The proceeds will be passed through to ACOB Lighting Technology Limited  to 
implement the seven hybrid solar mini-grid projects in the selected states in Nigeria. 
 
The proceeds of the Green Debt will be applied towards the procurement of equipment, construction, 
installation and commissioning of seven (7) solar -hybrid mini-grids across Edo and Ondo state s. Out of 
the total amount earmarked for the project ( ₦1.88 billion), the Sponsor will be providing an equity 
contribution of ₦376.5 million, leaving the actual debt financing at ₦1.51 billion.  
 
Table 1 below details the schedule of use of proceeds. 
 
Table 1: Detailed Use of Proceeds 
Uses of funds  Amount ₦  % 
Generation capex 630,027,035 41.7% 
Distribution capex 534,147,000 35.4% 
Customer connections 183,812,500 12.2% 
General & capex Contingency 37,438,465 2.5% 
Reserve account funding  124,575,000 8.3% 
Total Green Debt Issuance 1,510,000,000 100.0% 
Source: ACOB Lighting Technology Limited 
 
The Company  envisions that the hybrid solar mini -grid projects will directly contribute to the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), SDG 9 (Industry, 
Innovation and Infrastructure), and SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), while also indirectly 
contributing to other SDGs such as: 
• SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 
• SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities 
for all 
• SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 
• SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all  
• SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive 
employment and decent work for all 
• SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
• SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 
• SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable 
development 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      5 
 
3.0 SCOPE OF ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT 
The objective of this assurance engagement is to obtain a Limited Assurance of the verification and 
conformance of the internal procedures of ACOB Lighting Technology Limited to comply with the material 
requirements of the Green Bonds Principles published by the International Capital Market Association, the 
Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 and the Solar Sector Criteria (version 2.3) published by Climate Bonds 
Initiative. The following have been assessed in this engagement:  
• Use of Proceeds 
• Process for Project & Assets Evaluation and Selection 
• Management of Proceeds 
• Reporting 
 
4.0 OUR APPROACH  
Agusto & Co.  undertook necessary activities to collect sufficient evidence to present factual findings in 
line with the scope outlined above. Our work constituted a high-level review of the available information, 
based on the understanding that this information was provided to us by ACOB and its partners in good 
faith. We have not performed an audit to check the veracity of the information provided to us. The Verifier’s 
review covered an examination of relevant procedures, policies and processes, as well as verificatio n of 
data provided by the Sponsor through various sampling techniques  and based on our professional 
judgment. Our assurance procedures performed included, but were not limited to : 
 
• Assessed ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s  Green Bond Framework (Framework) against the 
CBI Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0  
• Assessed the Company’s p roposed eligible assets using the verification pre -issuance 
requirements of the CBI’s Climate Bonds Standard and the CBI’s Solar criteria  (version 2.3) 
• Assessed the valuation of projects against the proposed size of the Green Debt 
• Reviewed the Issuer’s Framework including processes, systems, internal procedures and controls 
in place for the management of bond proceeds, investment areas for Green Bond proceeds and 
intended types of temporary investment instruments for the management of unallocated 
proceeds  
• Checked the list of projects, which are proposed to be associated with the Green Bond and their 
conformance with eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the Climate Bonds Standard  
• Evaluated the procedures performed by the Sponsor regarding the organisation,  its 
environmental objectives, intended use of bond proceeds, details of the process and procedure 
for identifying nominated eligible assets and projects and details of the process and procedure 
for the management of proceeds 
• Reviewed the response to the questionnaire completed by the Sponsor that covers all criteria of 
the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 
• Assessed background and supporting documents that elaborate further on the information 
mentioned in the questionnaire. 
• Conducted interviews with key staff of ACOB Lighting Technology Limited on 18 December 2023 
responsible for the Green Bond Issuance. 
• Obtained management responsibility letter dated 12 December 2023 confirming management’s 
representation of alignment with the relevant CBI criteria and key assertions made in the 
Framework. 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      6 
 
5.0 LIMITATIONS 
There are inherent limitations in performing any assurance engagement – for example, assurance 
engagements are based on selective testing of the information being examined – and fraud, error, or non-
compliance may occur and not be detected. There are addit ional inherent risks associated with assurance 
over non -financial information including reporting against standards which require information to be 
assured against source data compiled using definitions and estimation methods that are developed by the 
reporting entity. Our assurance was limited to the Pre-issuance verification of ACOB’s Green Bond 
Framework and relevant information.  Therefore, our assurance procedures did not constitute an 
examination or evaluation of the following: 
• Credit rating and financial performance of the prospective Issuer or Sponsor  
• Environmental, social, or governance impact of the proposed projects, except to the extent 
required for compliance with Climate Bonds Initiative Version 4.0. 
• Any information beyond the defined reporting boundary and period 
 
6.0 MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY 
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited, as the Sponsor of the project, was responsible for preparing the 
Green Bond Framework and providing information in relation to the following: 
• The selection process for the nominated projects. 
• The details of the nominated projects and methodology applied. 
• The intended use of the Bond proceeds 
• The management systems for internal processes and controls for nominated projects.  
• The details of commitments for reporting p re and post -issuance, including investment areas, 
management of unallocated proceeds and frequency of periodic reporting. 
• Representations regarding conformity with the CBI Solar Criteria (Version 2.3) and the Climate 
Bond Standard Version 4.0. requirements. 
 
7.0 VERIFIER’S RESPONSIBILITY 
The tasks undertaken by Agusto & Co. as part of this Limited Assurance Engagement of ACOB’s Framework 
and the eligibility of projects and assets being financed to meet the Climate Bonds Standard Solar Sector 
Criteria (Version 2.3) for the proposed green bond issuance included the assessment of the following: 
• Conformance of ACOB’s Framework with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0. 
• Conformance with the Solar Eligibility Criteria (Version 2.3) 
• Conformance of intended use of proceeds and management thereof with the Climate Bonds 
Standard requirements 
• Conformance with the Internal Processes & Controls requirements. 
• Conformance with Reporting Prior to Issuance requirements. 
 
8.0 INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL 
• As an approved verifier by the Climate Bonds Initiative, Agusto & Co. ensures that the results of 
the independent Pre -Issuance Verification Report are of the highest quality and reflect an 
impartial review process of Climate Bonds Standards Version 4.0. 
• Agusto & Co carried out Limited Assurance procedures in accordance with the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements [ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information] established by the International Auditing 
and Assurance Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).  
• Agusto & Co. nor any member of the verifier team is involved in any way in the issuance or 
management of Green Bonds. Agusto & Co. has applied internal procedures to confirm no 
conflicts of interest for this verification engagement. 
 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      7 
 
9.0 CONCLUSION 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, Agusto & Co. notes 
that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects the 
ACOB’s Green Debt is not in conformance with The Green Bond Principles, the Climate Bonds Standard 
Version 4.0, the Solar Sector Eligibility Criteria (Version 2.3) published by Climate Bonds Initiative and 
the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Checklist Requirements. 
 
 
For Agusto & Co: 
 
 
 
Ikechukwu Iheagwam           Oritsejimi Ogbobine 
Associate Director           Associate Director & Head, Consulting 
30 December 2023          30 December 2023 
 
 
 
 
© Agusto&Co. 
UBA House (5th Floor) 
57 Marina Lagos 
Nigeria. 
P.O Box 56136 Ikoyi 
+234 (1) 2707222-4 
+234 (1) 2713808 
Email: info@agusto.com 
www.agusto.com 
 
Disclaimer 
This Pre-Issuance verification report (“Report”) is given by Agusto & Co and is addressed solely to the Company per the terms of the l etter of engagement. We 
have not considered the interest of any other party in the Report. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we accept no responsibility and deny any liability to 
any other party for our work, for this statement or for the conclusions we have reached. Agusto & Co. will not accept any for m of liability for the substance of 
the Report and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of the Report and/or the information provided in it. As the R eport is based on information made 
available by the Company, Agusto & Co. does not warrant that the information  presented in this Report is complete, accurate or up to date. Nothing contained 
in this Report shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability of investing in any securities or any 
asset whose value is derived from any securities. Any person other than the Company who obtains access to the Report or a copy thereof and chooses to rely on 
it will do so at its own risk. Furthermore, this Report shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an asse ssment of the financial performance and 
creditworthiness of the Issuer, Company or the Bond. The issuance and the performance of the Company and the Bond are outside the scope of this engagement. 
We have consented to the inclusion of the Report on the Clim ate Bonds Initiatives (CBI) website or in such other manner as CBI shall from time to time use for 
making verification reports publicly available in respect of applications for certification to the Climate Bonds Standard.  
 
  

 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      8 
 
10.0 APPENDIX 
 
Appendix A: List of Nominated Projects & Assets 
S/N Location State PV Size 
(kWp) 
Battery 
Size(kW) 
Mini Grid Type Number of 
Connections 
1 Cluster of Sule, Abapanu and 
Bondu communities 
Edo 60 192 Isolated 762 
2 Ajegunle Edo 30 192 Isolated 456 
3 Mile 13 (Cluster) Ondo 55 192 Isolated 520 
4 Otu Costain Ondo 70 192 Isolated 750 
5 Adaja Ondo 40 126 Isolated 397 
6 Orotedo Ondo 40 126 Isolated 344 
7 Bolorunduro Adewole Ondo 40 126 Isolated 368 
 Total  335 1,146  3,597 
 
 
Appendix B – List of Documents Reviewed  
1. ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s Green Bond Framework (24 May 2023) 
2. ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s Certificate of Incorporation, MEMART and Form CAC 2 & 7 
3. ACOB Solar Hybrid Mini Grids 1 Ltd’s Certificate of Incorporation, MEMART and Status Report 
4. Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for the proposed Mini -grid Pipeline at Odigbo, 
Ondo West, Akure North, Ile-Oluji/Okeigbo and Ose LGA, Ondo State. Final Report (May 2023). 
5. Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for the proposed 100KPW Mini-grid Solar Power 
Project in Olooji Community Ijebu East LGA Ogun State , prepared by Environmental Accord Limited 
(November 2020). 
6. Federal Ministry of Environment of Nigeria Approval Letter for the Environmental and Social 
Management Plan (ESMP) Approval for the Proposed 60KWP and 30KWP Solar Hybrid Mini Grid Power 
Projects at Ovia South West Local Government Area of Edo State (11 November 2021)  
7. Federal Ministry of Environment of Nigeria, Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate for Solar 
Hybrid Mini-Grid (3 Sites) issued to ACOB Lighting Technology Limited (11 November 2021)  
8. Preliminary Environmental and Social Review for ACOB Lighting Technology Limited , prepared by 
EBS Advisory (Pty) Limited (February 2022) 
9. Development Impact Assessment Report on ACOB Lighting Technology Limited 
10. Completed response to Agusto & Co.’s Green Bond Pre-Issuance Verification Questionnaire 
11. ACOB Project Cost Estimates and Bill of Quantities 
12. ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s Management Responsibility Letter (12 December 2023) 
13. Executed Power Purchase Agreements for the nominated solar-hybrid mini-grid projects 
14. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission’s registration of ACOB Lighting Technology Limited  
as a Mini-grid Developer and approval for various mini-grid developments in Nigeria 
15. ACOB Green Debt Asset Register and Tracker 
16. Draft Applicable Private Placement Memorandum (May 2023) 
17. Draft PCB Multi-issuer Programme Trust Deed (May 2023) 
 
  
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      9 
 
Appendix C: Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.0 Pre-Issuance Certification Checklist 
 
1. Use of Proceeds  
 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement  Findings  Requirement 
Met 
 1.1 The Issuer shall document the Nominated Projects & Assets 
which are proposed to be associated with the Bond and which have 
been assessed as likely to be Eligible Projects & Assets. The Issuer 
shall establish a list of Nominated Projects & Assets which can be 
kept up to Date during the term of the Bond. 
Agusto & Co. has reviewed the Green Bond 
Framework and the list of nominated projects to 
be associated with the Bond. The nominated 
projects are 7 solar-hybrid mini-grids with a total 
PV size of 335 KW and a Battery size of 1 ,146 
kWh expected to have 3,597 connections in two 
states (Edo and Ondo) in Nigeria. Based on the 
Framework, the net proceeds of the ₦1.51 billion 
bond will be applied toward the construction, 
installation and commissioning of s even solar-
hybrid mini-grids. 
The Nominated Projects & Assets conform to the 
Climate Bonds Standard Solar Sector Criteria. 
YES 
1.2. The expected Net Proceeds of the Bond shall be no greater than 
the Issuer’s total investment exposure to the proposed Nominated 
Projects & Assets, or the relevant proportion of the total Market 
Value of the proposed Nominated Projects & Assets which are 
owned or funded by the Issuer. 
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited confirmed 
that the net debt proceeds (after deducting 
transaction cost and debt service reserve 
provision) will be fully utilized for the proposed 
projects and Nominated Assets. In addition, the 
Issuer has pledged to provide any additional 
funds as equity over and above the bond 
proceeds required to operationalise the assets as 
shown in the table below. 
Uses of funds  Amount ₦  % 
Generation capex 630,027,035.00 41.7% 
Distribution capex 534,147,000.00 35.4% 
Customer connections 183,812,500.00 12.2% 
General & capex 
Contingency 
37,438,465.00 2.5% 
Reserve account funding  124,575,000.00 8.3% 
 Total Green Debt Issuance 1,510,000,000.00 100% 
 
YES 
1.3 Nominated Projects & Assets shall not be nominated to other 
Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified Climate 
Debt Instruments, green bonds, green loans or other labelled 
instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds) unless it is 
demonstrated by the Issuer that: 
The Company ’s Framework and Management  
confirmed that the seven solar-hybrid mini-grid 
projects ha ve not been nominated for other 
climate finance tools: certificates, climate loans, 
certified climate debt instruments, green bonds, 
green loans, or other labe lled instruments (such 
as social bonds or SDG bonds). 
 
YES 
1.3.1 Distinct portions of the Nominated Projects & Assets are 
being funded by different Certified Climate Bonds, Certified 
Climate Loans, Certified Climate Debt Instruments, green 
bonds, green loans or other labelled instruments or;  
1.3.2 The existing Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate 
Loan or Certified Climate Debt Instrument is being refinanced 
via another Certified Climate Bond, Certified Climate Loan or 
Certified Climate Debt Instrument. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      10 
 
2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects and Assets  
 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings  Requirement 
Met  
2.1. The Issuer shall establish, document and maintain a decision-
making process which it uses to determine the eligibility of the 
Nominated Projects & Assets. The decision-making process shall 
include, without limitation: 
ACOB has established a documented process 
to nominate eligible projects and assets 
associated with this Bond issue based on 
environmental objectives and criteria, and 
compliant with the Solar sector eligibility 
criteria of the Climate Bond Standards. 
YES 
2.1.1. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the Bond. ACOB has a strong commitment to enabling 
clean, affordable, and reliable energy access 
and this is underpinned by the Company’s 
strategic ambition of supporting Nigeria’s 
transition to a low -carbon and climate -
resilient economy and achieving the 
Sustainable Development Goals . ACOB  
believes that issuing a Green Bond 
demonstrates its commitment to support the 
transition to a net -zero economy and 
promote beneficial environmental outcomes. 
The proposed Green Bond issuance will have 
a direct impact on SDGs 7, 9  and 11 while 
having an indirect impact on SDGs 3, 4, 5, 6, 
8, 12, 13 and 17 as identified in the Green 
Bond Framework. 
YES 
2.1.2 How the climate-related objectives of the Bond are 
positioned within the context of the Issuer’s overarching 
objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to 
environmental sustainability. 
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s solar-
hybrid mini-grid which uses renewable solar 
energy is strategically aligned with the 
Federal Government of Nigeria’s goals to 
increase access to electricity for 90% of the 
population which contributes towards 
achieving Nigeria's Nationally Determined  
Contributions. Deployment of Mini-grids 
solutions are  cost-effective alternative s to 
the grid in achieving this goal given that the 
majority of the population without access to 
electricity are domiciled in rural areas. 
YES 
2.1.3 Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond.  ACOB believes that issuing a Green Bond 
demonstrates commitment and transparency 
to developing sustainable projects that 
support the transition to a net-zero economy 
and promote beneficial environmental 
outcomes as the net proceeds of the bond 
will be fully applied towards the 
construction, installation and commissioning 
of seven solar-hybrid mini-grids in two states 
in Nigeria. 
YES 
2.1.4 A process to determine whether the Nominated Projects & 
Assets meet the eligibility requirements specified in Part C of the 
Climate Bonds Standard. 
ACOB through the Management Letter 
confirmed that the eligible projects & assets 
shall have a minimum of 85% of electricity 
generated from solar energy resources. Also, 
all the eligible activities relating to solar 
energy generation are projects or assets that 
operate in one or more of the eligible 
activities as noted in the Solar sector criteria 
Version 2.3 section 1.3 and section 2 Table 1.  
The Issuer has met the eligibility and 
technical criteria requirements for the Solar 
sector criteria (version 2. 3) in line with Part 
A of the Climate Bond Standard Version 4.0. 
YES 
2.2 Issuer should include under Clause 2.1 further aspects of the 
decision-making process, including: 
The decision-making process is described in 
2.21, 2.2.2 and 2.23 below 
YES 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      11 
 
2. Process for Evaluation and Selection of Projects and Assets  
 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings  Requirement 
Met  
2.2.1 Related eligibility criteria, including, if applicable, exclusion 
criteria or any other process, applied to identify and manage 
potentially material environmental, social or governance risks 
associated with the Nominated Projects & Assets. 
The Selection and Exclusion criteria are 
detailed in the Green Bond Framework. The 
Green Bond Committee (GBC) whose 
members consist of representatives from 
Transaction Sponsor, ACOB Lighting 
Technology Limited Management Team and 
Guarantor representatives, will be 
responsible for defining the decision-making 
process for determining a project’s eligibility 
with regards to the following tasks. 
o Review and validate the selection of 
eligible green projects, twice a year; 
o Monitor resource allocation to eligible 
green projects and ensure compliance 
with the Use of Proceeds requirements; 
o Manage any future updates of the Green 
Bond Framework;  
o Coordinate the preparation of reports as 
described in this Framework; and 
o Prepare audit trails and collect the 
necessary evidence to facilitate external 
auditor verification. 
YES 
2.2.2 Green standards or certifications referenced in the selection 
of Nominated Projects & Assets. 
ACOB complies with the ICMA Green Bond 
Principles (2021) and plans to obtain 
certification under the Climate Bond 
Standards 
YES 
2.2.3 The issuer shall assess that all proposed Nominated Projects & 
Assets to be associated with the Bond meet the documented 
objectives as stated under Clause 2.1.1 and are likely to conform to 
the relevant eligibility requirements under Part C of the Climate 
Bonds Standard. 
The Company provided a list of eligible solar 
energy projects that it had assessed as 
eligible and meet the documented objectives 
as stated under Clause 2.1.1 and are likely to 
conform to the relevant eligibility 
requirements under Part A of the Climate 
Bonds Standard Version 4.0.  
The portfolio of 7 hybrid-solar mini -grid 
projects w as assessed by the Verifier for 
conformance with the eligibility criteria with 
no discrepancies identified. 
YES 
 
 
  
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      12 
 
 
3. Management of Proceeds  
 
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings  Requirement 
Met  
3.1 The systems, policies and processes to be used for management 
of the Net Proceeds shall be documented by the Issuer and disclosed 
to the Verifier, and shall include arrangements for the following 
activities: 
The Company has a documented process 
which has been disclosed to the Verifier 
including the governance charter of the GBC, 
sample Green Asset Register and Tracker 
YES 
3.1.1 The Net Proceeds of the Bond can be credited to a sub-
account, moved to a sub -portfolio, or otherwise tracked by the 
Issuer in an appropriate manner and documented. 
The Net proceeds will be appropriately tracked 
by ACOB’s Finance Manager and documented 
with the use of the Green Bond Register. This 
activity will be supervised by the Guarantor ’s 
Environmental and Social Manager and 
Portfolio Risk Manager to ensure transparency 
and accountability for the management of 
proceeds. 
YES 
3.1.2 The balance of unallocated Net Proceeds can be managed 
as per the requirements in Clause 7.3. 
As noted in the GBF, unallocated net proceeds 
will be held in any form of cash, bank deposit 
or other form s of authorised investments per 
its investment management policy. The 
unallocated Net Proceeds will be managed in 
compliance with the requirements of CBI 
standards. 
YES 
3.1.3 The earmarking process can be used to manage and 
account for funding to the Nominated Projects & Assets and 
enables estimation of the share of the Net Proceeds being used 
for financing and refinancing. 
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited  has a 
detailed earmarking process in the Framework, 
which will be reflected periodically in the 
Green Bond Register and complemented with 
an annual Allocation Reporting during the 
period when the bond proceeds are yet to be 
allocated in full. In addition, the post-issuance 
verification report will be completed within 24 
months of the issuance of the bond, while 
annual reporting is required every year (after 
the post-issuance report) until the maturity of 
the bond in line with CBI requirements. 
In line with the Green Bond Framework, the 
Company intends to allocate the proceeds of a 
given Green Debt issuance within two years  
from the issue date of each Green Bond 
issuance. The proceeds will only be used for 
financing the nominated 7 hybrid -solar mini-
grid projects. 
YES 
 
  
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      13 
 
4. Reporting Prior To Issuance  
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings  Requirement 
Met  
4.1 The Issuer shall prepare a Green Bond Framework and 
make it publicly available prior to Issuance or at the time of 
Issuance. The Green Bond Framework shall include, without 
limitation: 
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited will make the Green 
Bond Framework and pre -issuance verification report 
available on its website www.acoblighting.com  
YES 
4.1.1 Confirmation that the Bonds issued under the 
Green Bond Framework are aligned with the Climate 
Bonds Standard. This may include statements of 
alignment with other applicable standards, such as the 
EU Green Bond Standard, the ASEAN Green Bond 
Standard, Chinese domestic regulations, Japanese Green 
Bond Guidelines, etc. 
The Company has based the preparation of the Green 
Bond Framework for the issue on the ICMA Green Bond 
Principles and the Climate Bonds Standard version 4.0. 
YES 
4.1.2 A summary of the expected use of proceeds, as 
defined under Clause 1.1, and the expected contribution 
of the relevant sectors or sub-sectors to the rapid 
transition required to achieve the goals of the Paris 
Climate Agreement. 
Agusto & Co. confirms that ACOB’s G reen Bond 
Framework includes a summary of the expected use of 
proceeds’ contribution to achiev ing the goals of the 
Paris Agreement as noted in Clause 1.1. 
YES 
4.1.3 A description of the decision-making process, as 
defined under Clause 2.1, with particular reference to 
the requirements in Clause 2.1.2. 
Agusto & Co. confirms that the Company’s Green Bond 
Framework includes a descripti on of the  decision-
making process to ensure a rigorous project evaluation 
and selection as defined under Clause 2.1. 
YES 
4.1.4 on the methodology and assumptions to be used 
for: confirming, where required by relevant Sector 
Eligibility Criteria, the characteristics or performance of 
Nominated Projects & Assets required to conform to 
the relevant eligibility requirements under Part C of the 
Climate Bonds Standard; and any other additional 
impact metrics that the issuer will define.  
Agusto & Co. confirms that the Green Bond Framework 
includes a description of the relevant Sector Eligibility 
Criteria, as well as relevant impact metrics, on which 
ACOB intends to report. The metrics are detailed below: 
Eligible Project Impact Indicators 
Renewable Energy 
Impact indicators for 
Renewable Energy Eligible 
Green Projects will be 
provided per technology and 
geographic zone 
• Installed capacity in MW. 
• Annual renewable energy 
production in MWh  
• Annual GHG emissions avoided in 
tons of CO2 equivalent 
Energy Efficiency 
Impact indicators for Energy 
Efficiency Eligible Green 
Projects will be provided per 
geographic zone 
• Annual reduction of energy 
consumption in % or MWh.  
• kWh of annual energy saving 
• Annual GHG emissions are 
reduced in tons of CO2 
equivalent. 
 
YES 
4.1.5 A summary of the approach to the management of 
unallocated Net Proceeds in accordance with Clause 3.1. 
Agusto & Co. confirms that ACOB Lighting Technology 
Limited’s Framework clearly states the approach that 
will be used to manage the unallocated net proceeds 
and reporting thereof (see clause 3.1). 
YES 
4.1.6 The intended approach to providing Update 
Reports to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the Bond remains outstanding. 
ACOB will prepare an Allocation Report to show how 
proceeds are being utilized and assets they are 
deployed to until full allocation ; an Impact Report to 
show the expected impact of the project and measuring 
quantitative and qualitative performance indicators ; 
and an Annual Assurance Report post full allocation to 
show compliance to a set of sustainability indicators to 
inform about the project’s contributions to 
environmental development. 
YES 
4.1.7 The list of proposed Nominated Projects & Assets 
associated with the Bond and the investment areas, as 
provided in Clause 9.1, into which the Nominated Projects 
& Assets fall. Where there are limits on the amount of 
detail that can be made available about specific 
Nominated Projects & Assets, information shall be 
presented on the investment areas which the Nominated 
Projects & Assets fall into, provided in Clause 9.1, and the 
Issuer shall provide an explanation of why details on 
Nominated Projects & Assets is limited. 
The list of nominated projects ha s been identified in 
the Framework and they fall under the Solar Criteria of 
the Climate Bond Standard.  
YES 
 
                                                                                                                                   
ACOB Lighting Technology Limited’s ₦1.51 Billion Green Debt Issuance 
 Pre-Issuance Verification Assurance Report      14 
 
4. Reporting Prior To Issuance  
Climate Bonds Standard Requirement Findings  Requirement 
Met  
4.1.8 Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used 
for refinancing, an estimate of the share of the Net 
Proceeds used for financing and refinancing, and the 
relevant Nominated Projects & Assets or investment 
areas which may be refinanced. This may also include 
the expected look-back period for refinanced 
Nominated Projects & Assets. 
The net proceeds will be fully deployed for financing 
seven new solar-hybrid mini-grids and will not be used 
for refinancing existing projects or assets as there is no 
look-back period. 
Uses of funds  Amount ₦  % 
Generation capex 630,027,035 41.7% 
Distribution capex 534,147,000 35.4% 
Customer connections 183,812,500 12.2% 
General & capex 
Contingency 
37,438,465 2.5% 
Reserve account funding  124,575,000 8.3% 
 Total Green Debt Issuance 1,510,000,000 100% 
 
YES 
4.2 The Issuer shall include in the Disclosure 
Documentation: 
  
4.2.1 The investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, 
into which the Nominated Projects & Assets fall. 
The selected Projects fall in the “Solar  Energy” 
classification of Climate Bonds Taxonomy  and are 
guided by Solar Sector Criteria Version 2.3. 
YES 
4.2.2 The intended types of temporary investment 
instruments for the management of unallocated Net 
Proceeds in accordance with Clause 7.3. 
The unallocated proceeds will be held in investment 
instruments including treasury bills issued by the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria;  demand or time deposits; 
and such other investments or managed in accordance 
with ACOBs’ investment management policy.  
YES 
4.2.3 The Verifier engaged by the Issuer for the 
mandatory verification engagements. 
The Issuer has commissioned Agusto & Co. as an 
independent Verifier approved by the Climate Bonds 
Standards Board to perform the Pre-Issuance and Post-
Issuance Verification of the Green Bond. 
YES 
4.2.4 The intended approach to providing Update 
Reports to reaffirm conformance with the Climate 
Bonds Standard while the Bond remains outstanding, 
including the location of the published documents. 
ACOB intends to reaffirm conformance with the Climate 
Bonds Standard while the Green Bond remains 
outstanding through the  provision of  three reports 
(Allocation Report until full allocation , Impact Report  
on expected impact and indicators  and Assurance 
Report after full allocation) that would be available on 
the Company’s website. 
YES 
4.2.5 The CBI Disclaimer provided in the Certification  
Agreement.  
The Company states that it will abide by and provide 
the CBI’s disclaimer in the certification agreement. 
YES 
 
 
Disclaimer 
This Pre-Issuance verification report (“Report”) is given by Agusto & Co and is addressed solely to the Company per the terms of the letter of engagement. We have not considered 
the interest of any other party in the Report. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we accept no responsibility and deny a ny liability to any other party for our work, for this 
statement or for the conclusions we have reached. Agusto & Co. wi ll not accept any form of liability for the substance of the Report and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of the Report and/or the information provided in it. As the Report is based on information made available by the Comp any, Agusto & Co. does not warrant that the 
information presented in this Report is complete, accurate or up to date. Nothing contained in this Report shall be construed  as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability of investing in any securities or any asset whose value is derived from any securities. Any person other than the Company who obtains access 
to the Report or a copy thereof and chooses to rely on it will do so at its own risk. Furthermore, this Report shall in no ev ent be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the financial performance and creditworthiness of the Issuer, Company or the Bond. The issuance and the performance of the Company and the Bond are outside the scope of this 
engagement. We have consented to th e inclusion of the Report on the Climate Bonds Initiatives (CBI) website or in such other manner as CBI shall from time to ti me use for 
making verification reports publicly available in respect of applications for certification to the Climate Bonds Standar d.