DNV Business Assurance Australia Pty. Ltd. Level 4, 181 Miller Street, North Sydney, NSW Australia, 2060. Ph: +61 (2) 9922 1966 https://www.dnv.com/assurance/  
 
  
VADODARA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (VMC) GREEN FINANCE 
FRAMEWORK 
DNV VERIFICATION OPINION 
Scope and Objectives  
 
Vadodara Municipal Corporation (also known as “VMC”) city municipal body of the city of Vadodara is third 
largest city after Ahmedabad and Surat in  the Indian State of  Gujarat. Vadodara currently covers 
approximately area of 220.33 sq. km. with a population of 24,85,412 (For 2021 As per Certificate Submitted 
for Amrut 2.0). It lies at 35.5 meters above sea level.  The City of Vad odara is governed by the Vadodara 
Municipal Corporation (VMC) which was founded in 1951. VMC plays a pivotal role as a facilitator and service 
provider for a better and healthy life to its citizens. After selection of the city under the Smart Cities Mission. 
VMC is close to accomplishing its mission to provide a clean, hygienic and aesthetically pleasing environment 
for the citizens by achieving the best civic standards in the country while preserving the historical character 
of the city. With almost 70 years’ experience, VMC is one of the most environmentally conscious civic body. 
VMC seeks to generate sustainable long -term returns through investing in mature, stable infrastructure  
development. VMC has long understood that managing green infrastructure development opportunities are 
essential to protecting and enhancing long -term value. Fundamentally, VMC believes that excellent 
environmental management is a prerequisite to good investments: best -in-class health and safety culture, 
prudent management of environmental risks  is good for the city, its stakeholders and the environment. It 
reduces risk and improves long-term investment returns. 
VMC have developed a Green Financing Framework (“Framework”) to outline the governing framework will 
execute and manage green bonds on an ongoing basis  based on Climate Bond Standards (“CBS”) v4.0  and 
water infrastructure sector criteria v3.2 of the projects based on Use of Proceeds (UoPs) such as Water and 
Waste certification criteria of Climate bond Initiative and Green Municipal bond applicable guidelines. 
The Framework describes the process of using green bonds issued under a Green Bond Facility or a Green 
Tranche of a Bond Facility (collectively referred to as “Green Bonds”) to finance or refinance projects, assets 
or activities with environmental benefits. The Framework will apply to any Green Bonds issued by VMC and 
will be applied as long as any such instrument is outstanding. 
DNV notes the nominated assets to meet the eligibi lity criteria set forth by the CBS, satisfying the water 
infrastructure Eligible Green Projects definitions as listed below: 
• Water Supply & Treatment 
 
DNV Business Assurance India Pvt. Ltd. (“DNV”) has been commissioned by VMC to review the Framework 
and provide a Second Party Opinion on the Framework in relation to alignment with the Climate Bond 
 
 
Page 2 of 14 
 
   
 
  
Standard (CBS) V4 published in April 2023 and the Water Infrastructure Criteria V3.2 published in August 
2022.  
No assurance is provided regarding the financial performance of instruments issued via the Framework, the 
value of any investments, or the long -term environmental benefits of the transaction. DNV’s objective has 
been to provide an assessment that the Framework has met the  criteria established on the basis set out 
below. 
Responsibilities of the Management of VMC and DNV 
The management of VMC has provided the information and data used by DNV during the delivery of this 
review. Our statement represents an independent opinion and is intended to inform VMC management and 
other interested stakeholders in the Framework as to whether the Framework is aligned with the CBS. In our 
work we have relied on the information and the facts presented to us by VMC. DNV is not responsible for 
any aspect of the nominated assets referred to in this opinion and cannot be held liable if estimates, findings, 
opinions, or conclusions are incorrect. Thus, DNV shall not be held liable if any of the information or data 
provided by VMC’s management and used as a basis for this assessment were not correct or complete. 
DNV is not responsible for any aspect of the nominated assets referred to in this Schedule 1 of this opinion 
and cannot be held liable if estimates, findings, opi nions, or conclusions are incorrect. Thus, DNV shall not 
be held liable if any of the information or data provided by VMC’s management and used as a basis for this 
assessment were not correct or complete. 
Basis of DNV’s opinion 
DNV has conducted the verification against the CBS v 4.0 and associated Sector Technical Criteria  through 
the creation and execution of a verification protocol addressing each requirement of the CBS v 4.0 and the 
relevant technical criteria (Water). The detail of areas covered in the DNV verification is summarised in 
Schedule 2 below. 
DNV has conducted the verification against the relevant project criteria  in parallel to the CBS v 4.0 Pre-
Issuance Verification. A summary of compliance with the CBS is included in Schedule 3 below. 
Work Undertaken 
Our work constituted a high-level review of the available information, based on the understanding that this 
information was provided to us by VMC in good faith. We have not performed an audit or other tests to 
check the veracity of the information provided to us. The work undertaken to form our opinion included: 
• Creation and execution of a Climate Bonds Standard Protocol, adapted to include the relevant Sector 
Technical Criteria for  the green bond’ nominated projects and assets , as described above and in 
Schedule 2 to this Opinion; 
• Verification of compliance with the CBS as described above and in Schedule 3 to this Opinion; 
• Assessment of documentary evidence provided by VMC on the bonds and supplemented by a high-
level desktop research,  
• Documentation of findings against each element of the criteria . Our opinion as detailed below is a 
summary of these findings. 
Findings and DNV’s opinion 
DNV has performed the Pre-Issuance Verification of the Green Bond. It is DNV’s responsibility to provide an 
independent verification statement on the compliance of the Bond with the Climate Bonds Standard V4.0 
 
 
Page 3 of 14 
 
   
 
  
and the Water Infrastructure Criteria of Climate Bond Initiative collectively referred to as the Principles & 
Standards. 
DNV conducted the verification in accordance with the Principles & Standards  and with International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Information . The verification included i)  checking whether the provisions of the Principles & 
Standards were consistently and appropriately applied and ii) the collection of evidence supporting the 
verification. 
DNV’s verification approach draws on an understanding of the risks associated with co nforming with the 
Principles & Standards  and the controls in place to mitigate these. DNV planned and performed the 
verification by obtaining evidence and other information and explanations that DNV considers necessary to 
give limited assurance that the Framework, and other associated documentation, meet the requirements of 
the Principles & Standards. 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to 
believe that the Green Bond is not, in all material respects, in accordance with the Pre-Issuance requirements 
of the CBS, and the Water Infrastructure sector criteria. 
  
For DNV Business Assurance India Pvt. Ltd. 
Mumbai, India / 4 January 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Anirban Chatterjee 
Team Leader 
 
 
 
 Thomas Leonard 
Technical Reviewer 
 
About DNV 
Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, DNV enables organisations to advance the safety and sustainability of 
their business. Combining leading technical and operational expertise, risk methodology and in-depth industry knowledge, we empower our 
customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to provide customers 
and society with operational and technological foresight. With our origins stretching back to 1864, our reach today is global. Operating in more 
than 100 countries, our 16,000 professionals are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. 

 
 
Page 4 of 14 
 
 
  
SCHEDULE 1: DESCRIPTION OF NOMINATED ASSETS  
 
Nos Name of the Project 
Capital Cost 
(Rs. in Cr) 
O&M Cost 
(Rs. In Cr) 
1 Construction of 100 MLD Sewage Treatment Plant at Sherkhi 171.15 29.10 
2 Construction of 21 MLD Sewage Treatment Plant and MPS at Undera 68.38 13.18 
3 
Construction of new Auxiliary Pumping Station, Pressure line and Drainage network in newly added Bil area of Vadodara 
city 74.78 3.07 
 Total Cost 314.91 45.35 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Page 5 of 14 
 
 
  
SCHEDULE 2: CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD VERIFICATION CRITERIA 
Summary criteria for assertions of compliance with the Climate Bonds Standard v4.0 
A full verification is provided in the associated Verification protocol. 
The criteria against which VMC and its nominated projects & assets have been reviewed prior to inclusion in the bond are grouped under the requirements as detailed 
within the CBS including: 
Part A: Pre-Issuance Requirements  
1. Area 2. Requirement 
3. Use of Proceeds 4. Nominated projects & assets which are proposed to be associated with the Bonds and which have been assessed as 
eligible activities under the CBS related Sector Criteria 
5. Project Selection  6. Establish, document and maintain a decision -making process which it uses to determine the eligibility of the 
Nominated Projects & Assets.  
7. Management of Proceeds 8. The systems, policies and processes to be used for management of the Net Proceeds shall be documented by the 
Issuer.  
9. Reporting Prior to Issuance  
10.  
11. The Borrower prepared a Green Financing Framework and make it available prior to Issuance or at the time of issuance 
to lenders 
12. Reporting 13. Reporting on use of proceeds and nominated projects and assets 
 
Part B: Post-Issuance Requirements 
14. Use of Proceeds 1. Nominated Projects & Assets which are proposed to be associated with the Bonds and which have been assessed 
as likely to be Eligible Projects & Assets  
2. Project Selection  3. Establish, document and maintain a decision -making process which it uses to determine the eligibility of the 
Nominated Projects & Assets  
 
 
Page 6 of 14 
 
 
  
4. Management of Proceeds 5. The systems, policies and processes to be used for management of the Net Proceeds shall be documented by the 
Issuer  
6. Reporting 7. Reporting on use of proceeds and nominated projects and assets 
 
Part C: Eligible projects and physical assets 
Nominated projects and assets include amounts drawn under Green Bonds issued under VMC’s Framework, to be used solely for the purpose of financing acquisitions 
of, credit support for (including lender-issued letters of credit), or other equity investments into, assets that meet the eligibility criteria as outlined in Schedule 1. 
Eligible Green 
Project 
Categories 
Eligible Criteria and Description CBI Criteria 
Water 
Infrastructure 
Investments in potable water monitoring, efficiency, treatment and 
water recycling measures: 
• Water management and efficiency; 
• Water treatment and recycling;   
• Water treatment (including wastewater treatment) for recycling 
and reuse. 
Refer to CBI Water Infrastructure Criteria (August, 2022) – Water 
treatment, including but not limited to Water recycling systems, 
Wastewater treatment facilities, Manure/slurry treatment facilities. 
 
Part D: Certification under the Climate Bonds Standard 
1. Area 2. Requirement 
3. Pre-Issuance Certification 4. The Borrower of a Climate Bonds Standard Certification has satisfied  the Pre-Issuance Certification requirements 
including the completion of all forms, Pre-Issuance Verification by an approved verifier and provision of relevant 
information 
 
 
Page 7 of 14 
 
 
  
5. Post-Issuance Certification 6. The Borrower of a Climate Bonds Standard Certification must satisfy the Post-Issuance Certification requirements 
including the completion of all forms, Post-Issuance Verification by an approved verifier and provision of relevant 
information 
7. Maintaining Certification 8. The Borrower shall provide annual reporting to the CBI and comply with non-conformance correction as required 
 
  
 
 
Page 8 of 14 
 
 
  
SCHEDULE 3: CLIMATE BOND STANDARD (CBS) ELIGIBILITY ASSESSMENT PROTOCOL 
1. Use of Proceeds  
Ref. Criteria Requirements DNV Findings 
1a Type of 
Financial 
Instrument 
The Bond must fall in one of the 
following categories, as defined by the 
CBS V4 : 
• Green Use of Proceeds Bond 
 
The VMC Green Financing Framework clearly describes the intention for the Use of Proceeds to 
be borrowed under the terms of the Framework.  
 
Amounts drawn under Green Bonds issued under the Framework will be used solely for the 
purpose of financing acquisitions of, credit support for (including lender-issued letters of 
credit), or other equity investments into, assets that meet the Water Infrastructure eligibility 
criteria as outlined in Schedule 1 of this Report, above. 
 
DNV notes that VMC Green Financing Framework has been prepared and structured to 
facilitate the inclusion of: 
- Renewable Energy Generation 
- Energy Efficiency (Solar batteries) 
- Clean Transportation 
- Waste Management 
 
The reviewed evidence confirms that the Use of Proceeds fall in the category: Green Use of 
Proceeds Bonds. DNV confirms these to be in line with the Climate Bond Standard 
1b Green 
Project 
Categories  
The cornerstones of a Green Bond are 
the utilization of the proceeds of the 
Bond to Eligible Green Categories which 
should be appropriately described in 
the legal documentation for the Bond. 
Eligible project categories presented in the Framework by VMC are as follows: 
• Water Supply – Water treatment 
DNV notes that these categories are considered Eligible Project Categories / Assets under the 
CBS. 
DNV reviewed the evidence presented in the Framework and can confirm that the Use of 
Proceeds are in line with the stated criteria of the CBS.   
 
 
Page 9 of 14 
 
 
  
- Mitigation Component:  As the Sewage Treatment Plants are equipped with on-site 
solar panels, no net GHG emissions impact is expected. 
- Adaptation&Resilience Component: The Vulnerability Assessment & Adaptation Plan 
Scorecard has been evaluated.   
1c Environme
ntal 
benefits 
All designated Green Project categories 
should provide clear environmentally 
sustainable benefits, which, where 
feasible, will be quantified or assessed 
by the Issuer. 
The Framework indicates VMC’s commitment to environmentally beneficial projects, through 
their three Climate Action targets. As long-term infrastructure investors, VMC manages the 
risks and opportunities presented by climate change and the energy transition, and as such, 
climate and decarbonisation are a key focus for VMC. 
 
The Framework also indicates VMC’s focus on actions to engage with stakeholders with the aim 
of setting additional methane avoidance targets and action plans beyond the proposed projects 
developed by VMC’s Infrastructure team as part of sustainable city initiative. VMC aims to focus 
on ensuring that key standards are understood and adhered to, in order to improve 
performance post-acquisition to increase long-term value and have positive “real-world” 
environmental as well as social impacts. 
 
1d Refinancing 
Share 
In the event that a proportion of the 
proceeds may be used for refinancing, it 
is recommended that issuers provide an 
estimate of the share of financing vs. re-
financing, and where appropriate, also 
clarify which investments or project 
portfolios may be refinanced. 
VMC has indicated in the VMC Green Financing Framework the list of all eligible projects that 
are to be financed / refinanced. VMC will also ensure that the estimated proportion of financing 
proceeds used for refinancing vs. financing will be explicitly documented in relevant publicly 
available company reports such as the annual report, sustainability report and annual impact 
report, whichever is relevant.  Look-back period is maximum 6 months. 
 
VMC states under the Allocation Reporting, that it will communicate to investors / lenders an 
indicative amount of the proceeds used for refinancing vs financing of the listed eligible green 
assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 14 
 
 
  
2. Process for Project Selection and Evaluation 
Ref. Criteria Requirements DNV Findings 
2a Investment
-decision 
process 
The Issuer of a Green Bond should 
outline the decision-making process it 
follows to determine the eligibility of 
projects using Green Bond proceeds. 
This includes, without limitation: 
• The environmental objectives of the 
eligible Green Projects; 
• The process by which the issuer 
determines how the projects fit 
within the eligible Green Projects 
categories; and 
• Complementary information on 
processes by which the issuer 
identifies and manages perceived 
environmental and social risks 
associated with the relevant 
project(s). 
The Framework describes the eligibility qualification and process for evaluating and selecting 
projects. The Framework also indicates a process to ensure the drawdown proceeds from a 
Green Bond will only be allocated to the listed Eligible Assets. 
 
From the Framework 
AMRUT 2.0 Scheme is a Central Sponsored Scheme, cost of project approved 
under this scheme has to be borne by Central, State and ULB in proportion of 
25%, 40% and 35% as their Share. Central and State Government provides their 
shares in form of grants through Public Finance Management System (PFMS) 
equipped Single Nodal Agency Account of State Government for the Scheme. 
Whereas ULB has to contribute its shares plus tender premium or price 
escalation from own sources or borrowing. Against its total share, VMC has 
decided to mobilize Rs.100 Crore from debt capital market by floating a Green 
Municipal Bond. General Board of VMC has given all the powers to the 
Municipal Commissioner for all necessary ancillary actions in this regard, to do 
agreements, appoint necessary agencies, form committees, make payments, 
etc. till the completion of this work. 
The Accounts Department of VMC along with Trustee will keep a track of 
proceeds within the existing guidelines regarding debt management and 
monitor the allocation of funds towards eligible green expenditures. 
Unallocated proceeds, if any, will be carried forward to successive years for 
investment in eligible green projects. 
 
DNV confirms that the process for evaluation and selection described in the Framework 
ensures that the net proceeds of the Green Bonds drawn under the Framework are well aligned 
with the criteria listed in the CBS. 
2b Issuer / 
borrower’s 
Issuers are also encouraged to: VMC is guided by their sustainability commitments, to ensure the drawdown proceeds from a 
Green Bond will only be allocated to Eligible Assets. The ISTM in consultation with the 
 
 
Page 11 of 14 
 
 
  
environme
ntal and 
governance 
framework 
• Position the relevant information 
within the context of the issuer’s 
overarching objectives, strategy, 
policy and/or processes relating to 
environmental sustainability. 
• Provide information, if relevant, on 
the alignment of projects with official 
or market-based taxonomies, related 
eligibility criteria  
• Have a process in place to identify 
mitigants to known material risks of 
negative environmental and/or social 
impacts from the relevant project(s).  
investment team and ESG specialists will manage the evaluation and selection process for 
assets to qualify as Eligible Assets, taking into account the following requirements: 
• Conformance with VMC’s sustainability objectives; 
• Conformance with the CBS and alignment to the Eligibility Criteria; 
• Where CBI certification is sought, alignment with the current Climate Bonds Standard 
will be verified by an independent third party; 
• Conformance with any other relevant market guidelines, principles or standards that 
may be developed domestically or globally from time to time; 
• Identification and management of perceived, actual or potential environmental and 
social risks associated with the relevant asset(s); and 
• Applying the professional judgement of the ISTM in consultation with investment team 
and ESG specialists, discretion and sustainability knowledge. 
DNV confirms that these organisational principles and governance procedures are well aligned 
with the criteria listed in the CBS. 
 
3. Management of Proceeds 
Ref. Criteria Requirements DNV Findings 
3a Tracking 
procedure 
• (Bond) The proceeds of Green 
Bonds should be credited to a 
dedicated account or otherwise 
tracked by the borrower in an 
appropriate manner, so as to 
maintain transparency and 
promote the integrity of the 
product. Where a green Bond takes 
the form of one or more tranches 
of a Bond facility, each green 
tranche(s) must be clearly 
The Framework states that VMC will only use the proceeds from Green Bonds to finance or 
refinance Eligible Assets. 
 
VMC will track the receipt and use of amounts drawn under Green Bond facilities via its 
internal reporting systems, ensuring Eligible Assets financed or re-financed by Green Bonds 
are appropriately identified. Management of the proceeds will in all other respects be 
consistent with the VMC Green Financing Framework, where tracking of the proceeds will 
include key information such as issuer entity, transaction date, principal amount of proceeds, 
maturity date, etc. 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 14 
 
 
  
designated, with proceeds of the 
green tranche(s) credited to a 
separate account or tracked by the 
borrower in an appropriate 
manner. 
 
From the Framework 
The Accounts Department of VMC along with Trustee will keep a track of 
proceeds within the existing guidelines regarding debt management and 
monitor the allocation of funds towards eligible green expenditures.  
Unallocated proceeds, if any, will be carried forward to successive years for 
investment in eligible green projects. 
 
DNV has reviewed the evidence presented and can confirm that the proceeds arising from the 
Green Bonds will be appropriately managed and are aligned with the criteria listed in the CBS.  
 
3b Tracking 
procedure 
 
So long as the Green Bond is 
outstanding, the balance of the 
tracked proceeds should be 
periodically reduced by amounts 
matching eligible green investments 
or Bond disbursements made during 
that period. 
VMC commits to precisely monitoring the balance of the tracked proceeds drawn under the 
Framework. VMC aims to present the following information with regards to the tracking 
procedure: 
From the Framework 
• The bond proceeds will be deposited to the Consolidated Green Bond 
Account (GBA) in line with the VMC’s regular treasury policy, and then 
funds from the GBA will be made available for eligible green projects. 
In order to ensure that the allocation and accounting of proceeds is 
transparent, clear and accurate, a separate account will be created 
and maintained by the Accounts Department of VMC. 
• The Accounts Department of VMC will keep a track of proceeds within 
the existing guidelines regarding debt management and monitor the 
allocation of funds towards eligible green expenditures. Unallocated 
proceeds, if any, will be carried forward to successive years for 
investment in eligible green projects 
 
DNV confirms that the tracking procedure committed to by VMC is well aligned with the 
relevant criteria of the CBS and meets the standards for managing net proceeds drawn under 
the Green Financing Framework. 
 
 
Page 13 of 14 
 
 
  
4. Reporting 
Ref. Criteria Requirements DNV Findings 
4a Periodical 
reporting 
• Issuers should make, and keep, 
readily available up to date 
information on the use of 
proceeds to be renewed annually 
until full allocation, and on a 
timely basis in case of material 
developments. 
• The annual report should include 
a list of the projects to which 
Green Bond proceeds have been 
allocated, as well as a brief 
description of the projects, the 
amounts allocated, and their 
expected impact. 
VMC commits to being transparent and reporting on the balances of the Green Bonds drawn 
under the Framework. VMC will report to relevant stakeholders on the Framework and each 
executed Green Bond; reporting on the Framework and Green Bonds may be included in the 
fund’s typical annual ESG reporting and will be a summary of activity in the relevant reporting 
period. 
 
VMC ensures to make the following information available to its lenders/investors: 
• Assurance Statements 
• CBI Certification pre- and post-issuance reports 
o Where certified, pre-issuance will be provided at the time the certified Green 
Bond is executed and post-issuance will be provided within 24 months of the 
Bond being executed. 
• Allocation Reporting 
o Eligible Green Assets earmarked to be funded by the proceeds; 
3c Temporary 
holdings 
Pending such investments or 
disbursements to eligible Green 
Projects, the Issuer should make 
known to investors the intended types 
of temporary investment instruments 
for the balance of unallocated 
proceeds. 
VMC confirms that net proceeds drawn from Green Bonds under this Framework will be 
allocated fully to the list of Eligible Assets and does not intend to have any unallocated 
proceeds. 
 
The amount of contribution payable under AMRUT Scheme is Rs. 200.00 crores from the 
municipal bonds given by the earlier approval of the first phase of Rs. 100 crores to be 
allowed to be raised and for contribution eligible under Amrut/other schemes, additional Rs. 
200 crores green/municipal bonds and all the powers to take all necessary ancillary actions in 
this regard, to make agreements, to appoint necessary agencies to form committees to make 
payments, are given to the Municipal Commissioner. 
 
DNV confirms that this procedure for the tracking and management of net proceeds, as well 
as any cases of unallocated proceeds, is well aligned with the criteria listed in the CBS. 
 
 
Page 14 of 14 
 
 
  
• Where confidentiality 
agreements, competitive 
considerations, or a large number 
of underlying projects limit the 
amount of detail that can be 
made available, the CBS 
recommend that information is 
presented in generic terms or on 
an aggregated portfolio basis (e.g. 
percentage allocated to certain 
project categories). 
o Amount or proceeds allocated to the various Eligible Green Assets at the 
reporting date;  
o Description of Eligible Green Assets;  
o Aggregate amount of proceeds of Green Bonds allocated to Eligible Green 
Assets;  
o Amount of the proceeds used for refinancing vs financing of Eligible Green 
Assets; and 
o Remaining balance of unallocated proceeds (if any). 
• Impact Reporting 
o For Eligible Assets supported by a Green Bond, VMC will report annually on 
impact metrics where possible and relevant. 
 
DNV confirms that the stated reporting procedure is consistent with the criteria set out in the 
CBS.