A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
 
Independent Limited Assurance Statement in relation to pre-issuance assurance of 
the Powerco Limited Green Financing Framework and nominated assets 
 
 
Scope 
Ernst & Young Limited (“EY”, “we”) were engaged 
by Powerco Limited (“Powerco”) to undertake a 
‘limited assurance engagement as defined by 
International Standards on Assurance Engagements 
(New Zealand) 3000 (Revised), here after referred 
to as the “engagement”, to report on Powerco’s 
Green Finance Framework (the “Framework”) and 
the nominated assets listed within the Framework 
(together the “Subject Matter”), in order to 
conclude that nothing has come to our attention 
that the Subject Matter has not been prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the Criteria 
defined below.  
 
Subject Matter and Criteria 
The subject matter and associated criteria for this 
limited assurance engagement are set out in the 
table below: 
Subject Matter Criteria 
• Powerco’s Green 
Finance Framework  
 
• The nominated assets 
listed in Annex A, 
valued as at 31 March 
2023 
 
• The nominated Use of 
Proceeds debt 
instruments –  
Climate Bonds Standard’s 
(CBI’s) Use of Proceeds Pre-
Issuance Requirements, 
Version 4.0  
 
The CBI’s Electrical Grids 
and Storage Criteria (March 
2022) 
 
Other than as described in the preceding paragraph, 
which sets out the scope of our engagement, we did 
not perform assurance procedures on the remaining 
information included in Powerco’s Framework, and 
accordingly, we do not express a conclusion on this 
information. 
 
Powerco’s responsibilities 
 
Powerco’s management is responsible for selecting 
the Criteria, and for presenting the Subject Matter 
in accordance with that Criteria, in all material 
respects. This responsibility includes establishing 
and maintaining internal controls, maintaining 
adequate records and making estimates that are 
relevant to the preparation of the subject matter, 
such that it is free from material misstatement,  
whether due to fraud or error. 
 
EY’s responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the 
presentation of the Subject Matter based on the 
evidence we have obtained.  
Our conclusion expresses whether anything has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe that 
the Subject Matter, has not been presented, in all 
material respects, fairly and in accordance with the 
Criteria detailed above. Our assurance engagement 
has been planned and performed in accordance with 
the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (New Zealand): 3000: Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information (‘ISAE (NZ) 3000’), 
and the terms of reference for this engagement as 
agreed with Powerco on 12 June 2024.  
That standard requires that we plan and perform 
our engagement to express a conclusion on whether 
anything has come to our attention that causes us 
to believe that the Subject Matter is not prepared, in 
all material respects, in accordance with the 
Criteria, and to issue a report.  
 
Our independence and quality management 
We are independent of Powerco in accordance with 
Professional and Ethical Standard 1 International 
Code of Ethics for Assurance Practitioners 
(including International Independence Standards) 
(New Zealand) issued by the New Zealand Auditing 
 
Assurance conclusion 
Based on our limited assurance procedures performed and evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to 
our attention to cause us to believe that, in all material respects Powerco Limited’s Green Financing 
Framework, nominated assets and nominated debt instruments (“the Subject Matter”) are not in conformance 
with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Use of Proceeds Pre-Issuance Requirements, Version 4.0 and the other 
Criteria defined below. 
2 
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
 
and Assurance Standards Board, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements.  
Ernst & Young applies Professional and Ethical 
Standard 3 which requires the firm to design, 
implement and operate a system of quality 
management including policies or procedures 
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards, and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements. 
 
Description of procedures performed  
Procedures performed in a limited assurance 
engagement vary in nature and timing from and are 
less in extent than for a reasonable assurance 
engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance 
obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than the assurance that would 
have been obtained had a reasonable assurance 
engagement been performed. Our procedures were 
designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on 
which to base our conclusion and do not provide all 
the evidence that would be required to provide a 
reasonable level of assurance. 
Although we considered the effectiveness of 
management’s internal controls when determining 
the nature and extent of our procedures, our 
assurance engagement was not designed to provide 
assurance on internal controls. Our procedures did 
not include testing controls or performing 
procedures relating to checking aggregation or 
calculation of data within IT systems. 
A limited assurance engagement consists of making 
enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for 
preparing the Green Financing Framework and 
nominated assets and related information and 
applying analytical and other appropriate 
procedures.  
The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures 
selected depend on our judgement, including an 
assessment of the risk of material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. The procedures we 
performed included, but were not limited to: 
• Assessing the Green Financing Framework 
against the CBI’s Use of Proceeds Pre-Issuance 
Requirements, Version 4.0.  
• Obtaining the list of Powerco’s nominated assets 
and assessing whether the assets’ meet the 
requirements of the CBI’s Electrical Grids and 
Storage Criteria (March 2022) through citing 
evidence. 
• Obtained and reviewed the Green loan 
documentation for the use of proceeds debt 
instrument.  
• Testing the assets for existence and testing the 
value of the assets back to audited valuations of 
the Electricity Distribution Services Information 
Disclosure. 
• Obtaining Powerco’s calculations of the systems 
decarbonisation pathway and reperformed the 
calculations to test whether more than 67% of 
newly connected generation capacity in the 
system is below the generation threshold of 
100gC02e/kWh. 
• Obtaining Powerco’s responses to the CBI’s 
Electrical Grids and Storage Criteria Adaptation 
and Resilience checklist and testing this by 
agreeing responses back to source 
documentation, such as scenario analysis and 
physical risk assessments. 
• Checking policies and procedures established by 
Powerco related to the Subject Matter to assess 
whether these were aligned to the requirements 
detailed in the Criteria. 
• Conducting interviews to understand the process 
for collecting, collating and reporting the Subject 
Matter. 
• Requesting documentation to support assertions 
made in the Subject Matter. 
• Seeking management representation on key 
assertions. 
• We also performed such other procedures as we 
considered necessary in the circumstances. We 
believe the evidence obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our review and 
conclusion. 
We also performed such other procedures as we 
considered necessary in the circumstances. We 
believe the evidence obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our review and 
conclusion. 
 
Restricted use  
This report is intended solely for the information 
and use of management and directors of Powerco 
and CBI and is not intended to be and should not be 
used by anyone other than those specified parties. 
We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any 
reliance on this assurance report to any persons 
other than management and directors of Powerco, 
and the Climate Bonds Initiative, or for any purpose 
other than that which it is intended.   
 
 
 
Pip Best
Partner - Climate Change and Sustainability Services 
Ernst & Young Limited
8 July 2024
 
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
 
Annex A 
Nominated assets 
The nominated assets for Powerco’s Green Financing Programme are listed below. 
Nominated Assets Sector Criteria 31 March 2023 valuation  
Transmission and Distribution Networks 
(Grids) 
Electrical Grids and 
Storage 
$2,589,537,000