A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation  
 
 
Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Management and Directors 
of SA Power Networks  
 
What our review covered 
We reviewed the following Subject Matter relating to 
SAPN’s Sustainable Financing Framework: 
• Policies and procedures related to the use of 
proceeds, process for project evaluation, 
management of proceeds and reporting 
requirements associated with Green Bonds 
• Eligibility criteria and valuation requirements 
relating to nominated assets and activities to be 
funded by Green Bonds. 
• SAPN’s nominated assets and activities which 
meet the Eligibility criteria outlined under the 
Climate Bond Initiative Sector Criteria for 
Electrical Grids and Storage 
Other than as described in the preceding paragraphs, 
which set out the scope of our engagement, we did 
not perform assurance procedures on the remaining 
information included in the Subject Matter, and 
accordingly, we do not express an opinion or 
conclusion on this information. 
Criteria applied by SAPN 
In preparing the Subject Matter, SAPN applied the 
following Criteria:   
• Climate Bond Standard v4.1 (CBS) 
• Climate Bond Standard Sector Criteria for 
Electrical Grids and Storage 
• International Capital Market Association’s Green 
Bond Principles (GBP) 
 
Key responsibilities  
SAPN’s responsibility  
SAPN’s management is responsible for the collection, 
preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in 
accordance with that Criteria, in all material respects. 
This responsibility includes establishing and 
maintaining internal controls, maintaining adequate 
records and making estimates that are relevant to the 
preparation of the subject matter, such that it is free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error. 
EY’s responsibility and independence 
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance 
conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our review. 
We have complied with the independence and relevant 
ethical requirements, which are founded on 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
professional competence and due care, confidentiality 
and professional behaviour.  
The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQM 1 Quality 
Management for Firms that Perform Audits or Reviews 
of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, 
or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements, 
which requires the firm to design, implement and 
operate a system of quality management including 
policies or procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our approach to conducting the review 
We conducted this review in accordance with the 
Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board’s 
Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements Other 
Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information (‘ASAE3000’) and the terms of reference 
for this engagement as agreed with SAPN on 22 
February 2024. That standard requires that we plan 
and perform our engagement to express a conclusion 
on whether anything has come to our attention that 
causes us to believe that the Subject Matter is not 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with 
the Criteria, and to issue a report. 
 
Our Conclusion: 
Ernst & Y oung (‘EY’, ‘we’) were engaged by SA Power Networks (SAPN) to undertake a limited assurance 
engagement as defined by Australian Auditing Standards, hereafter referred to as a ‘review’, over the Subject 
Matter defined below as at 11 April 2024. Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we 
have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe the Subject Matter has not been 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria defined below.  
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation  
 
 
Summary of review procedures performed  
A review consists of making enquiries, primarily of 
persons responsible for preparing the Subject Matter 
and related information and applying analytical and 
other review procedures.  
The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures 
selected depend on our judgement, including an 
assessment of the risk of material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. The procedures we 
performed included, but were not limited to: 
► Checking policies and procedures established by 
SAPN related to the Subject Matter to assess 
whether they were aligned to the requirements 
detailed in the Criteria 
 
► Checking the nominated assets meet the eligible 
asset criteria outlined under the Climate Bond 
Standard Sector Criteria for Electrical Grids and 
Storage 
 
► Checking the expected net proceeds of the debt 
instrument exceeds the value of the nominated 
assets (i.e. SAPN’s Regulatory Asset Base) 
 
► Conducting interviews with personnel to 
understand the policies and procedures relating to 
the Subject Matter 
 
► Understanding the systems in place to support the 
reporting processes outlined in the Sustainable 
Financing Framework 
 
► Obtaining management representation on key 
assertations. 
 
We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our review 
conclusion. 
Inherent limitations 
Procedures performed in a review engagement vary in 
nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, 
a reasonable assurance engagement.  Consequently, 
the level of assurance obtained in a review engagement 
is substantially lower than the assurance that would 
have been obtained had a reasonable assurance 
engagement been performed . Our procedures were 
designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which 
to base our conclusion and do not provide all the 
evidence that would be required to provide a 
reasonable level of assurance. 
While we considered the effectiveness of 
management’s internal controls when determining the 
nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance 
engagement was not designed to provide assurance 
on internal controls. Our procedures did not include 
testing controls or performing procedures relating to 
assessing aggregation or calculation of data within IT 
systems. 
Use of our Assurance Report 
We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any 
reliance on this assurance report to any persons other 
than management, the Directors of SAPN, and the 
Climate Bonds Initiative or for any purpose other than 
that for which it was prepared. 
Our review included web-based information that was 
available via web links as of the date of this statement. 
We provide no assurance over changes to the content 
of this web-based information after the date of this 
assurance statement. 
 
 
Ernst & Y oung  
Adelaide, Australia 
12 April 2024 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation  
 
 
 
Annex A 
Nominated assets 
The nominated assets for SAPN’s Sustainable Financing Framework are listed below. 
Nominated Assets Sector 
Criteria 
Relevant Sector Eligibility 
requirements 
SAPN’s assessment of eligibility 
requirements  
Construction, upgrade and 
operation of SAPN’s 
distribution system 
infrastructure (e.g. stobie 
poles, powerlines, 
underground cables, street 
transformers, circuit 
breakers and switchgear) 
Electrical 
Grids and 
Storage 
Mitigation component: More than 67% 
of newly connected generation 
capacity in the system in which the 
infrastructure is located is below the 
generation threshold value of 100g 
CO2-e/kWh measured on a Product 
Carbon Footprint (PCF) basis over a 
rolling five-year period. 
 
Adaptation & Resilience component : 
“Has the issuer fulfilled the 
requirements of the Adaptation and 
Resilience checklist? 
SAPN demonstrated more than 67% 
of newly connected generation 
capacity to the National Electricity 
Market (NEM) falls below the 
generation threshold value of 100g  
CO2-e/kWh measured on a PCF basis 
over a rolling five-year period. SAPN 
followed the approach detailed in 
Methodological Note 2 of the 
Climate Bond Initiative’s Sector 
Criteria for Electrical Grids and 
Storage. 
 
SAPN completed an Adaptation and 
Resilience checklist and the assets 
meet the requirements set out 
within. 
Construction, operation, 
manufacturing and leasing 
of supporting infrastructure 
used exclusively for the 
eligible distribution system 
assets and activities 
 
 
 
 
Annex B – CBS Pre-issuance version 4.1 checklist 
SAPN’s 2023 Sustainable Financing Framework and nominated assets was assured against the following requirements as specified in the Climate Bond Standard v4.1
 
Criteria  Section Evidence provided  Assurance Procedures 
Utilisation of 
Proceeds 
2.1.1. The Issuer must document the Nominated projects and 
assets which are eligible to be associated with the debt 
instrument. The Issuer must compile a list of Nominated projects 
and assets which must be kept up to date during the term of the 
Bond. 
SAPN included the nominated assets within 
the Sustainable Financing Framework. The 
nominated assets are listed in Annex A. 
Checked SAPN has documented the nominated 
assets within the Framework.  
2.1.2. The expected Net Proceeds of the debt instrument must 
be no greater than the Issuer’s total Investment Exposure to the 
proposed Nominated projects and assets or the relevant 
proportion of the total Market Value of the proposed Nominated 
projects and assets owned or funded by the Issuer.  
The exact value of the proposed debt 
instrument(s) is still to be determined . We 
understand SAPN will not issue debt 
instruments with net proceeds exceeding 
the value of the nominated eligible assets.  
Performed management inquiries to determine 
whether the net proceeds of the debt instrument 
will be less than the SAPN’s value of the proposed 
nominated assets. 
 
2.1.3. Nominated projects and assets must not be nominated to 
other Certified debt Instruments, unless the Issuer demonstrates 
that distinct portions of the Nominated projects and assets are 
being funded by different Certified debt Instruments or, the 
existing Certified debt Instrument is being refinanced via another 
Certified debt Instrument.  
There are no other proposed or existing 
certified climate debt instruments.  
Checked whether SAPN has any other Certified 
debt instruments, and if so whether the 
nominated assets are already financed by an 
existing Certified debt instrument. 
Process for 
Evaluation and 
Selection of 
Projects & Assets 
2.2.1. The Issuer must establish, document, and maintain a 
decision-making process which it uses to determine the eligibility 
of the Nominated projects and assets.  
The Framework describes how the process 
for project evaluation and selection aligns 
with SAPN’s overarching objectives, 
strategy and policy relating to 
environmental sustainability, specifically, 
enabling climate mitigation.  
The Treasury department in conjunction 
with relevant operation and strategy 
personnel will select assets for the Eligible 
Asset Register. Asset selection is based on 
an eligibility assessment to confirm 
alignment with the Eligibility Criteria. 
Obtained evidence showing SAPN has completed 
an eligibility assessment for pre-issuance and has 
documented a process to evaluate asset eligibility 
against the  Electrical Grids and Storage Sector 
Criteria on an annual basis. Performed inquiries 
to understand how this will be maintained for 
post-issuance assessments. 
 
 
Criteria  Section Evidence provided  Assurance Procedures 
2.2.2. The decision-making process must include, without limitation:  
i. A statement on the climate-related objectives of the 
debt instrument. 
The Framework states SAPN will utilise 
proceeds to finance or refinance, in whole 
or in part, new or existing distribution 
assets which “support South Australia’s 
transition to a distributed and decarbonised 
energy system, and adaptation a nd 
resilience projects, such as network 
bushfire readiness, to maintain and 
enhance grid resilience and reliability“. 
 
The Framework outlines SAPN’s approach 
to sustainability and long-term ambitions to 
2035. Its vision is to “lead the 
transformation of energy services for a 
sustainable future”. 
 
Checked the Framework included a statement on 
the climate-related objectives of the Bond.  
ii. How the climate-related objectives of the debt 
instrument are positioned within the context of the 
Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or 
processes relating to environmental sustainability.  
Checked the Framework included details on the 
climate-related objectives of the debt instrument 
and how these relate to SAPN’s overarching 
strategy and processes. 
iii. The Issuer’s rationale for issuing the Bond.  The Framework highlights how the issuing 
of green financial instruments will be used 
to facilitate decarbonisation and climate 
adaptation/resilience. 
Checked the Framework and performed inquiries 
to corroborate the information included within 
the Framework agrees to other evidence 
obtained. 
iv. A process to determine whether the Nominated 
projects and assets meet the eligibility requirements of 
the Climate Bonds Standard.  
The Framework’s Use of Proceeds section 
covers how SAPN select the criteria for 
eligible assets, and the process undertaken 
to determine whether the assets are eligible 
per the criteria. 
Obtained SAPN’s eligibility assessment 
documentation and reviewed whether this aligns 
to the CBS and Sector Criteria for Electrical Grids 
and Storage. 
v. Related Sector Criteria, including any exclusion criteria 
and any other process, applied to identify and manage 
potentially material environmental or governance risks 
associated with the Nominated projects and assets . 
SAPN has assessed the nominated assets 
against the requirements of the Electrical 
Grid and Storage Sector Criteria for the 
purpose of pre-issuance. Per the 
Framework, an Eligible Asset Register will 
be prepared by SAPN’s Treasury 
department at least annually. SAPN will 
ensure the total value of any debt 
instrument does not exceed the value of the 
nominated assets contained in its Eligible 
Asset Register and endeavour to fully 
Obtained SAPN’s eligibility assessment 
documentation and reviewed whether this aligns 
to the CBS and Sector Criteria for Electrical Grids 
and Storage. Obtained evidence and performed 
testing to support the eligibility assessment, 
including evidence supporting the Adaptation and 
Resilience checklist to determine whether it is in 
line with the Criteria. 
 
 
Criteria  Section Evidence provided  Assurance Procedures 
allocate all proceeds within 24  months of 
issuance.  
vi. Any green standards or certifications referenced in the 
selection of Nominated projects and assets. 
SAPN references the ICMA Green Bond 
Principles. 
Checked nothing has come to our attention that 
causes us to believe the Sustainable Financing 
Framework has not been prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the ICMA Green 
Bond Principles.  
Management of 
Proceeds 
2.3.1. The Issuer must document and disclose to the Approved Verifier the systems, policies, and processes they will use to manage the Net Proceeds. The se must 
include arrangements for the following activities:  
a) Tracking of proceeds: The Net Proceeds of the debt 
instrument can be credited to a sub -account, moved to 
a sub-portfolio, or otherwise tracked by the Issuer in an 
appropriate manner and documented.  
The SAPN Treasury team commits to 
tracking and managing the net proceeds 
from every transaction. This will in clude an 
internal process to record all sustainable 
debt raised in a separate portfolio within its 
treasury management system. This 
portfolio will capture the initial proceeds 
raised and the on-lending of funds to 
identified projects.  
Checked the Framework and performed 
management inquiries to determine whether 
processes and controls are adequate ly in place to 
track proceeds. 
b) Managing unallocated proceeds: The balance of 
unallocated Net Proceeds can be managed as per the 
requirements in Clause A.3.3.3. 
The Framework includes SAPN’s summary 
of Management of Proceeds. SAPN will 
allocate all proceeds within 24 months of 
the issuance of green debt instruments. In 
the event that any proceeds from any debt 
issuance are unallocated or pending 
allocation, then these proceeds will be held 
in cash, or cash equivalent instruments.  
Checked the Framework and perform ed 
management inquiries to determine whether 
process and controls are adequate in place to 
manage unallocated proceeds.  
c) Earmarking funds to Nominated projects and assets: An 
earmarking process can be used to manage and 
account for funding to the Nominated projects and 
assets and enables estimation of the share of the Net 
Proceeds being used for financing and refinancing.  
The Framework provides that SAPN’s 
Treasury department will ensure the net 
proceeds are earmarked to Eligible Green 
Assets, with consideration to the CBS, UN 
SDGs, Eligibility Window and Excluded 
Assets (as described in the Framework) . 
The earmarked assets, and estimated value 
will be documented in the Eligible Asset 
Register managed by the SAPN’s Treasury 
department. The Treasury department in 
Checked the Framework and performed 
management inquiries to determine whether 
process and controls are adequate in place to 
earmark funds to nominated assets. Perform 
inquiries to understand the estimated share of 
refinancing and financing and the policies that 
govern this process. 
 
 
Criteria  Section Evidence provided  Assurance Procedures 
conjunction with relevant operation and 
strategy personnel will select assets for the 
Eligible Asset Register.  
2.3.2. Where the prospectus requires the proceeds to be ring -
fenced, they must be credited to designated bank accounts that 
can only fund the specified Nominated projects and assets. The 
Issuer must track and monitor all payments from the designated 
bank accounts. 
Not applicable.  Not applicable. 
Reporting: Green 
Finance 
Framework and 
Disclosure 
Documentation 
2.4.1. The Issuer must prepare a Green Finance Framework and 
make it publicly available prior to, or at the time of, issuance. The 
Green Finance Framework must be provided to the Climate Bonds 
Standard Secretariat as one of the certification documents  
SAPN has prepared a Sustainable Financing 
Framework. The Framework states SAPN 
will publicly disclose the Framework on its 
website, including the Pre-issuance 
verification report.  
Checked the sustainability report ing suite section 
of the website, where the Framework will be 
published, is publicly available.  
2.4.2. The Green Finance Framework must include  
i. A statement of compliance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard and/or other applicable standards such as the 
Green Bond Principles or the United Nations 
Sustainability Development Goals.  
SAPN’s Framework notes it engaged an 
Approved Verifier to examine whether the 
Sustainable Financing Framework is 
presented in accordance with the Climate 
Bonds Standard’s pre-issuance 
requirements, the Sector Criteria for 
Electrical Grids and Storage, and the IM CA 
Green Bond Principles, in all material 
respects.  
Checked the Framework includes: 
• statement that the Bonds issued under the 
Framework are aligned with the Climate 
Bonds Standard and other applicable 
standards; 
• a summary of the expected use of proceeds ; 
• a description of the decision-making process 
for the selection of nominated assets ; 
• a description of the processes for managing 
the proceeds; and 
• a description for reporting and external 
reviews.  
 
ii. A summary of the expected use of proceeds . SAPN’s Framework includes a description of 
expected use of proceeds. 
iii. A description of the decision-making process for 
project selection. 
SAPN’s Framework includes a description of 
the decision-making process for project 
selection.   
iv. A description of the Issuer’s processes for managing 
the proceeds. 
SAPN’s Framework includes a description of 
processes for managing proceeds of debt 
instruments issued under the Framework.   
v. A description of the Issuer’s processes for reporting 
and external review or verification. 
SAPN’s Framework includes a description of 
the processes for reporting and external 
review.    
 
 
Criteria  Section Evidence provided  Assurance Procedures 
2.4.3 The Green Finance Framework should also include, without limitation:   
i. Information on the methodology and assumptions to be 
used for confirming that the characteristics or 
performance of the Nominated projects and assets 
conform to the relevant Sector Criteria, where 
required, and any other additional impact metrics that 
the Issuer will define 
SAPN’s Framework describes the 
nominated assets will meet the Electrical 
Grids and Storage Criteria. SAPN 
demonstrated more than 67% of newly 
connected generation capacity to the NEM 
over 5-year rolling period is below the 
generation threshold of 100g CO 2-e/kWh.  
Checked the Framework includes: 
• information on the methodology and 
assumptions used, in either determining the 
eligibility of Nominated Assets, or when 
determining their performance for disclosure 
in impact reporting; 
• a summary of the approach to the 
management of unallocated Net Proceeds ; 
• the intended approach to providing Update 
Reports to reaffirm conformance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard while the bond 
remains outstanding; 
• the list of Nominated Projects & Assets 
associated with the Bond and the investment 
areas in which they fall; and 
• an estimate of the proportion of Net 
Proceeds used for refinancing, if applicable . 
ii. A summary of the approach to manage unallocated Net 
Proceeds in accordance with Clause A.3.3.3.  
SAPN’s Framework explains in the event 
that any proceeds from any debt issuanc e 
are unallocated or pending allocation, then 
these proceeds will be held in cash, or cash 
equivalent instruments.   
iii. The intended approach to provide Update Reports to 
reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard 
while the debt instrument remains outstanding.  
SAPN will aim to provide annual reporting 
in a timely manner and will reaffirm 
conformance with the Climate Bond 
Standard.  
 iv. The list of proposed Nominated projects and assets 
associated with the debt instrument and the 
investment areas into which the Nominated projects 
and assets fall. Where there are limits on the detail that 
can be made publicly available about specific 
Nominated projects and assets, information disclosed 
must include the investment areas into which th e 
Nominated projects and assets fall and an explanation 
of why detail on Nominated projects and assets is 
limited. 
SAPN’s Framework includes a list of 
proposed nominated assets, which are 
summarised above in Annex A.  
 
v. Where a proportion of the Net Proceeds are used for 
refinancing, an estimate of the respective shares of the 
Net Proceeds used for financing and refinancing, and 
the relevant Nominated projects and assets or 
investment areas which may be refinanced. This may 
also include the expected look-back period for 
refinanced Nominated projects and assets  
SAPN will prepare a Use of Proceeds report 
annually for all outstanding Green Bonds or 
Green Loans, including details on where 
proceeds have been allocated. SAPN ’s 
Framework outlines Use of Proceeds 
instruments may be used for financing and 
refinancing.   
Checked the Framework and performed 
management inquiries to determine whether 
processes and controls are adequately in place to 
track and report the use of proceed s. Performed 
inquiries to understand the estimated share of 
refinancing and financing and the processes for 
tracking this process. 
 
 
 
 
Criteria  Section Evidence provided  Assurance Procedures 
2.4.4. Issuers are encouraged to disclose as much information as 
possible with respect to Nominated projects and assets. 
However, in many cases it is not possible for the Issuer to 
disclose detailed information about specific projects and assets 
prior to the issuance of the Bond. This limitation may be due to 
confidentiality arrangements with owners of projects and a ssets, 
the dynamic nature of the project portfolio, competitive 
considerations, or other legal provisions which limit the 
disclosure of detailed information  
The nominated assets within the 
Framework are well known assets within the 
South Australian context. SAPN is South 
Australia’s primary electricity distributor.  
The information on the nominated assets 
contained in SAPN’s Framework is 
appropriate. Additional information on the 
nominated assets is publicly available. 
Checked appropriate information is provided in 
the Framework on SAPN’s nominated assets, and 
whether the additional information is publicly 
available elsewhere. 
2.4.5. The Issuer must include in its Disclosure Documentation:   
i. The investment areas into which the Nominated 
projects and assets fall. 
This is not applicable as SAPN is not yet 
issuing a debt instrument. 
Not applicable. 
ii. The intended types of temporary investment 
instruments for the management of unallocated Net 
Proceeds in accordance with Clause A.3.3.3.  
iii. The Approved Verifier engaged by the Issuer for the 
mandatory Verification Engagements . 
iv. The intended approach to provide Update Reports to 
reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard 
while the debt instrument remains outstanding, 
including the location of the published documents . 
 v. The Climate Bonds Initiative Disclaimer provided in the 
Certification Agreement. 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation  
 
 
Annex C - Adaptation and Resilience Checklist Summary 
A summary of SAPN’s 2024 Adaptation and Resilience checklist in relation to the nominated assets. 
Section Submitted 
1. Clear boundaries and critical interdependencies between the infrastructure and the system it operates within are identified  
1.1 Boundaries of the infrastructure are defined using :  
(1) a listing of all infrastructure and assets ; 
(2) and activities associated with the use of the bond 
proceeds, a map of their location; and  
(3) identification of the expected operational life of the 
activity, asset or project. 
SAPN’s distribution network assets (as at 31 December 2022) 
are publicly disclosed in its Monitoring, Evaluation and 
Compliance Strategy. 
 
A map of SAPN’s service areas is publicly disclosed in its 
Distribution Annual Planning Report 2023/24 to 2027/28.  
 
The expected economic and operational life of SAPN’s 
distribution network assets is disclosed in the following public 
materials: 
• Distribution Annual Planning Report 2023/24 to 2027/28;  
• Regulatory Information Notices (RINs); and  
• Asset Management Plans (currently under review) . 
 
1.2. Critical interdependencies between the infrastructure and the 
system within which it operates are identified. Identification of 
these interdependencies should consider the potential for adverse 
impacts arising from, but not limited to:  
(1) the effects of supply disruption or interruption on 
dependent electricity users or populations; 
(2) exacerbation of wildfires; 
(3) relationships of the asset/project to nearby flood zones;  
(4) reduction in pollinating insects and birds;  
(5) reduction in biodiversity or High Conservation Value 
habitat 
(6) damage or reduction in value of neighbouring property 
due to boundary structures at risk of falling during storm 
events; 
(7) fire and other practices that affect air quality;  
(8) appropriation of land or economic assets from nearby 
vulnerable groups. 
The interdependencies between SAPN’s infrastructure and the 
system within which it operates have been identified, including 
consideration for potential adverse impact arising from the items 
listed in Section 1.2. For instance:  
• SAPN provides detail on its website to guide customers on 
what to do when the power goes out. There is specific 
information for life support customers, who rely on 
electricity to run critical medical equipment.  
• SAPN’s Environmental Matters Management Approach, 
Bushfire Risk Management Manual and Network Emergency 
Response Management highlight the interdependencies 
between more frequent and severe bushfires and the 
breakdown of distribution network assets, and SAPN’s 
response to these issues. 
• SAPN describes the impact of floods on its distribution 
network assets and how it is working to minimise potential 
electricity disconnections on its website. Geospatial flood 
mapping has also been undertaken to assist with managing 
the inundation of assets during flood events.  
• SAPN engaged a third-party consultant to develop an Action 
Plan for Nature and Biodiversity, and TNFD Roadmap to 
work toward future adherence with nature -related reporting 
frameworks and supporting net positive biodiversity 
outcomes.  
• SAPN has an established damage claims a pproach for loss 
or damage to property and possession caused by an issue 
with power supply, or if the damage is due to SAPN’s 
business activities. Damage claims information is available 
on its website.  
• SAPN engages local community groups and stakeholders to 
minimise the impact of work on Aboriginal, historical, 
natural and industrial sites or places. Details of these 
processes are outlined on SAPN’s website. All projects in 
areas of known or high risk of cultural heritage require 
engagement with Traditional Owner Groups and/or surveys 
and monitoring, as outlined in SAPN’s Social Matters 
Management Approach.  
2. An assessment has been undertaken to identify the key physical climate hazards to which the infrastructure will be exposed an d 
vulnerable to over its operating life  
2.1 Key physical climate risks and indicators of these risks are 
identified in line with the following guidelines.  Risks are identified 
SAPN’s publicly available 2023 Sustainability Data and 
Disclosure Databook describes its risk management processes 
for identifying and assessing climate -related risks, including its 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation  
 
 
Section Submitted 
based on (a) a range of climate hazards, and (b) information about 
risks in the current local context, including reference to any 
previously identified relevant hazard zones, e.g., flood zones.  
In order to be confident that assets and activities are robust and 
flexible in the face of climate change uncertainties, it is essential 
that the climate risks being assessed and addressed cover those 
that are of greatest relevance to T&D grids and electrical energy 
storage. The physical characteristics of climate change that must 
be considered in the risk assessment include:  
• Temperature rise 
• Increased heavy rainfall 
• Sea-level rises 
• Increased lightning 
• Increased winds / gales 
• Increased snow, sleet, ice, freezing fog  
• Increased coastal / river erosion  
• Wildfires 
• Landslides / ground movement. 
Issuers might consider the climate risks posed through s pecific 
interdependencies. 
key physical climate hazards. The most material physical climate 
risks include severe storms, heatwaves, bushfires and 
rainfall/flooding.  
 
Due to the nature and location of SAPN distribution network 
assets, the following climate change physical risks are deemed 
immaterial or not relevant: landslides/ground movement ; sea-
level rises; increased snow, sleet, ice, freezing fog; and 
increased coastal/river erosion .  
 
 
 
Optional guidance for carrying out risk assessments: 
• Users should apply climate scenarios based on 
representative concentration pathway (RCP) 4.5 and 8.5 or 
similar / equivalent to ensure consideration for worst case  
scenario. 
• A broad range of models can be used to generate climate 
scenarios 
• Time horizons for assessing climate risk in agriculture can be 
based on annual seasonal forecasts and every ten years for 
the lifetime of the assets and projects. Where accurate 
assessments of climate variability for specific locations are 
not possible, use worst-case scenarios. 
• Risks can be characterized by the associated annual 
probability of failure or annual costs of loss or damage  
• For risk assessment, the TCFD The Use of Scenario Analysis 
in Disclosure of Climate Related Risks and Opportuniti es is 
recommended. 
SAPN’s climate risk reporting contained in its 2023 
Sustainability Data and Disclosure Databook has been presented 
in alignment with the TCFD framework.  The Databook outlines 
that as SAPN’s approach matures, it plans to conduct further 
physical climate-related risk assessment using scenario analysis . 
A formal climate scenario analysis is planned to be undertaken in 
2024.  
 
 
3. The measures that have or will be taken to address those risks, mitigate them to a level such that the infrastructure is suitable 
to climate change conditions over its operational life.  
3.1 Measures that have or will be taken to address key physical 
climate risks, mitigate them to a level such that the infrastructure 
is suitable to climate change condition s over its operational life.  
SAPN’s 2023 Sustainability Data and Disclosure Databook 
outlines management’s role in overseeing, assessing and 
managing climate-related risks, and SAPN’s processing for 
managing climate-related risks. The governance of SAPN’s 
climate-related risks aims to ensure the effectiveness of its risk 
management practices relating to physical risks . 
 
SAPN's Environmental Matters Management Approach repor t 
outlines SAPN’s risk preparation, mitigation, and adaptation 
activities for specific climate-related physical risks. SAPN also 
has a Resilience Program 2020 -2025 to combat the risks posed 
by extreme weather events.  
 
3.2 Risk reduction measures must be tolerant to a range of 
climate hazards and not lock-in conditions that could result in 
maladaptation. 
As described in 3.1 above, The SAPN’s governance, risk 
management and adaptation decisions address physical risks of 
climate change.  
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation  
 
 
Section Submitted 
SAPN's employs measures to avoid lock-in conditions that could 
result in maladaptation and unintentional consequences. For 
example, the Environmental Matters Management Approach 
report outlines that SAPN is the only utility in Australia to 
(voluntarily) be externally audited for vegetatio n compliance 
against the Electricity (Principles of Vegetation Clearance) 
Regulations 2021 and has strived to preserve or minimise the 
impact on native vegetation, significant and regulated trees, and 
native fauna from its work activities. SAPN hosts several 
vegetation management focused committees, including the 
Arborist Reference Group, the Local Gov ernment Association 
Working Group, and the Appropriate Species Advisory 
Committee. 
 
4. The infrastructure enhances the climate resilience of the defined system it operates within, as indicated by the boundarie s of 
and critical interdependencies with that system as identified in item 1 in this checklist.  
4.1 Issuers are to assess the climate resilience benefits of system 
focused assets and activities and demonstrate they are ‘fit for 
purpose’, in the sense that they enhance climate resilience at a 
systemic level, with the flexibility to take into account the 
uncertainty around future climate change impacts.  
The assessment is conducted according to the principle of best 
available evidence during the investment period taking into 
account the infrastructure’s boundaries and critical 
interdependencies as defined in Criteria 1. ‘Fit for purpose’ is 
defined as measures that mitigate the following effects:  
(1) the effects of supply disruption or interruption on dependent 
electricity users or populations; 
(2) exacerbation of wildfires; 
(3) relationships of the asset/project to nearby flood zones;  
(4) reduction in pollinating insects and birds;  
(5) reduction in biodiversity or High Conservation Value habitat;  
(6) damage or reduction in value of neighbouring property due 
to boundary structures at risk of falling during storm events;  
(7) fire and other practices that affect air quality;  
(8) appropriation of land or economic assets from nearby 
vulnerable groups. 
SAPN has a comprehensive suite of plans, programs, and 
management systems to maintain reliability and improve the 
resilience of the network, our people and communities.   
 
SAPN's climate-related risk mitigation measures (outlined in 
section 3.1 above) primarily focus on building resilience across 
the whole distribution network, particularly on SAPN's identified 
key climate risks (severe storms, heatwaves, bushfires and 
rainfall/flooding). This is expanded in detail in SAPN's Strategic 
Asset Management Plan and Environmental Matters 
Management Report.   
 
SAPN has a Resilience Program 2020-2025 to combat the risk 
posed by extreme weather events by building resilience of 
SAPN's assets. 
 
 
 
 
5. The issuance is required to demonstrate that there will be ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the relevance of the risks  and 
resilience measures and related adjustments to those measures will be taken as needed.  
5.1 Indicators for risks identified under item 2 in this checklist 
are provided. 
5.2 Indicators for risk mitigation measures identified under item 
3 in this checklist are provided. 
5.3 Indicators for “fit for purpose” resilience benefit measures 
identified under item 4 in this checklist are provided.  
5.4 Issuers have a viable plan to annually monitor:  
a) climate risks linked to the infrastructure  
b) climate resilience performance  
c) appropriateness of climate resilience measure(s) and to 
adjust as necessary to address evolving climate risks.  
5.5 Where electricity supply has been interrupted, the number of 
customer interruptions and customer minutes lost (i.e. 
aggregate duration of supply interruptions) should be 
measured and reported, together with the cause of the 
interruption. Any actions taken to reduce the risk of further 
impacts should also be recorded.  
 
SAPN monitors a range of operational, regulatory and corporate 
performance metrics, including measures which address 
identified climate risks. These are reported annually in SAPN’s  
suite of Sustainability Reporting documents, includ ing the 
Sustainability Data and Disclosure Databook, which is available 
on its website. The Databook notes SAPN employs an Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework in alignment with ISO 
31000:2009.  
 
SAPN annually reports on the average number of minutes 
customers are out of power due to planned and unplanned 
outages during the calendar year. As noted above, SAPN is 
working to minimise potential electricity disconnections due to 
climate risks and improve the resilience of its distribution 
network.