© Sustainalytics 2024 
 
 
 
Second-Party Opinion 
Saur Green & Blue Financing 
Framework 
 
Evaluation Summary 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework is 
credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond 
Principles 2021 and the Green Loan Principles 202 3. This assessment is based on 
the following: 
 
USE OF PROCEEDS The eligible categories for the use of proceeds – 
Water Production and Supply, Wastewater Collection and Treatment , 
Desalination of Water, Clean Transportation and Renewable Energy – 
are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples and 
the Green Loan Principles. Sustainalytics considers that investments 
in the eligible categor ies will lead to positive environmental impacts 
and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically 
SDGs 6, 7 and 11. 
  Saur’s Green Financing 
Working Group will be responsible for the evaluation and selection of 
projects in line with the Framework’s eligibility criteria.  Saur has 
internal policies, procedures and standards in place to address 
environmental and social risks, which apply to all allocation decisions 
made under the Framework.  Sustainalytics considers the project 
selection process to be in line with market practice. 
 MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Saur’s Treasury department will be 
responsible for the management of proceeds and will track their 
allocation through a portfolio approach using an internal tracking 
tool. Saur intends to allocate all proceeds within  two years of 
issuance. Pending full allocation, Saur will temporarily invest the 
proceeds in cash, cash equivalents or other liquid marketable 
instruments. This is in line with market practice 
 REPORTING Saur commits to report on the allocation of proceeds 
and corresponding impacts on its website on an annual basis until 
full allocation or in the event of material changes to the allocation. 
Allocation reporting will include the  total amount of proceeds 
allocated by category , the size of the eligible green portfolio , the 
share of financing versus refinancing  and the amount of 
unallocated proceeds . Sustainalytics views Saur’s allocation and 
impact reporting as aligned with market practice. 
 
 
 
Evaluation date September 18, 
2024 
Issuer Location Issy-les-
Moulineaux, 
France 
 
Report Sections 
 
 
Introduction ............................................. 2 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion ........................... 3 
 
For inquir ies, contact the Sustainable 
Corporate Solutions project team: 
Siga Wu (Amsterdam) 
Project Manager 
siga.wu@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 205 602 936 
Ayaka Okumura (Amsterdam) 
Project Support 
Enrico Tessadro (Amsterdam) 
Client Relations 
susfinance.emea@sustainalytics.com 
(+44) 20 3880 0193   
 
  

Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
2 
Introduction 
Saur SAS (“Saur” or the “Company”) is a French company that specializes in water services, water engineering 
and industrial water solutions. Headquartered in Issy-les-Moulineaux, Saur operates in 20 countries in Europe, 
Middle East, North America and Asia. Founded in 1933, Saur employed 12,000 people and served 9,500 local 
authorities and industrial clients as of December 20231,2  
Saur has developed the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework dated September 2024 (the “Framework”), 
under which it intends to issue green bonds, blue bonds, green loans  and blue loans,3 and use the proceeds 
to finance and refinance, in whole or in part, existing  and future projects that are expected to promote water 
supply, management and treatment as well as clean transportation and renewable energy in France and other 
countries globally. The Framework defines eligibility criteria in five areas: 
1. Water Production and Supply  
2. Wastewater Collection and Treatment 
3. Desalination of Water 
4. Clean Transportation 
5. Renewable Energy 
Saur engaged Sustainalytics to review the Framework and provide a Second-Party Opinion on the Framework’s 
environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 (GBP)4 and the Green Loan 
Principles 2023 (GLP).5 For the blue bond and loan issuances, Sa ur will also align with the IFC Guidelines for 
Blue Finance.6 The Framework will be published in a separate document.7  
Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics’ Second-Party Opinion 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent8 opinion on the alignment of the 
reviewed Framework with current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are 
credible and impactful. 
As part of the Second-Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: 
• The Framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021, as administered by ICMA, and the 
Green Loan Principles 2023, as administered by LMA, APLMA and LSTA; 
• The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds; and 
• The alignment of the issuer ’s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk 
management in relation to the use of proceeds. 
For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.17, which is 
informed by market practice and Sustainalytics’ expertise as an ESG research provider. 
As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Saur’s management 
team to understand the sustainability impact of its business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well 
as the management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. Saur representatives have 
confirmed that: (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Saur to ensure that the information provided 
is complete, accurate and up to date; (2) they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and 
(3) any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed 
relevant public documents and non-public information. 
 
1 Saur, “2023 Full Year Results”, (2024), at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/2024.04.03_FY-2023-Financial-
results_vdef.pdf?v=1712338922 
2 Saur, “Our Locations”, at: https://www.saur.com/dive-into-saur/our-locations 
3 For green and blue loans, Saur intends to issue term loans, project finance loans and ECA covered loans. Sustainalytics’s Second-Party Opinion applies 
only to the instruments expressly cited in the Framework. 
4 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green-
social-and-sustainability-bonds/green-bond-principles-gbp/. 
5 The Green Loan Principles are administered by the Loan Market Association, Asia Pacific Loan Market Association and Loan Syndications and Trading 
Association and are available at https://www.lsta.org/content/green-loan-principles/ 
6 IFC, “Guidance for Blue Finance”, (2022), at: https://www.ifc.org/content/dam/ifc/doc/mgrt/ifc-guidelines-for-blue-finance.pdf 
7 The Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework is available at: https://www.saur.com/investors 
8 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst 
independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management 
framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial and research 
(and engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific 
commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
3 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that 
Framework. 
Any update of the present Second -Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement 
conditions between Sustainalytics and Saur SAS. 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market 
standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market 
standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 
projects expected to be financed with bond and loan proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The 
measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framewo rk is the 
responsibility of the Framework owner. 
In addition, the Second-Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee 
the realised allocation of the bond and loan proceeds towards eligible activities. 
No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second -Party Opinion shall be considered as 
being a statement, representation, warrant or argument, either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that Saur has made 
available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second-Party Opinion. 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Saur Green & Blue Financing 
Framework 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework is credible, impactful and 
aligned with the four core components of the GBP and GLP. Sustainalytics notes that in addition to the GBP 
and GLP, Saur intends to follow the IFC Guidelines for Blue Finance . Sustainalytics highlights the following 
elements of the Framework: 
• Use of Proceeds:  
- The eligible categories  – Water Production and Supply, Wastewater Collection and Treatment,  
Desalination of Water , Clean Transportation and Renewable Energy   – are aligned with those 
recognized by the GBP and GLP.  
- Sustainalytics notes that financing under the Framework will take place in the countries in which 
the Company operates, primarily France, the Netherlands and other EU countries, with the 
exclusion of countries that are on the international sanctions list s according to the exclusion 
criteria in the Framework.  
- The Company has defined a look-back period of two years for its refinancing activities under the 
Framework, which Sustainalytics considers to be aligned with market practice. 
- Under the Framework, Saur will finance the following types of expenditures: i) capital and 
operating expenditures for assets that meet the Framework’s eligibility criteria; ii) R&D 
expenditures for new products and solutions that meet the Framework’s eligi bility criteria; and 
iii) equity investments for the acquisition of entities that: i) derive 90% or more of their revenue 
from activities that comply with the eligibility criteria set in the Framework; and ii) whose shares 
are not publicly traded or newly issued in primary markets. Sustainalytics believes that project- 
and activity-based investing generally result in more direct environmental benefits and enhance 
compliance with the criteria in the Framework. However, Sustainalytics acknowledges that using 
green, blue bond and loan proceeds to finance equity investments in pure  play companies is a 
commonly accepted approach that is likely to generate positive impacts by supporting the end 
activities of the pure play companies. Sustainalytics further notes that, it is market p ractice to 
limit the proceeds of the bonds and loans to the net value of credible assets under the balance 
sheet of the acquired company. Saur has communicated to Sustainalytics that it intends to 
finance the market value of the pure  play companies,9 which may be materially different from 
the value of the underlying credible assets. 
- Under the Water Production and Supply  category, Saur may finance or refinance the design, 
construction, extension, renewal, operation and maintenance of the following projects  in both 
 
9 Saur has communicated to Sustainalytics that equity investments for the acquisition of pure play companies will account for less than 15% of the total 
proceeds from bond and loan issuances under the Framework. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
4 
municipal and industrial sectors: i) water c ollection and treatment facilities ; ii) water supply 
systems; and iii) smart technology projects aimed at improving the efficiency of water supply 
and distribution systems for domestic and public services purpose s, some project examples 
include leakage control, metering of consumptions, digitalization and automation of sites, 
wastewater control , water quality control, and management of chemicals and energy 
consumption. Saur has confirmed that projects dedicated to  fossil fuel production and 
operation, and fossil fuel-related activities will be excluded under the Framework. Sustainalytics 
considers these investments to be aligned with market practice. 
- Under the Wastewater Collection and Treatment  category, Saur may finance or refinance the 
design, construction, extension, renewal, operation and maintenance of the following projects: 
▪ Wastewater collection and treatment facilities in the municipal and industrial sectors. 
This includes sludge treatment and recovery through composting and methanization. 
▪ Infrastructure dedicated to wastewater reuse , including provision of associated 
services and works. Treated and recycled wastewater will be applied in: i) agricultural 
land irrigation; ii)  urban watering and cleaning; iii)  industrial cleaning and process 
water; iv) recharging water tables; and v) water reuse in residential buildings. 
▪ Saur has confirmed that wastewater from fossil fuel production and operation , and 
systems dedicated to controversial activities such as industrial livestock management 
will be excluded under the category.  
▪ Sustainalytics considers expenditures under this category to be aligned with market 
practice. 
- Under the Desalination of Water  category, Saur may finance or refinance the design, 
construction, extension, renewable and maintenance of desalination plants  powered by 
renewables. Sustainalytics notes that : i) the des alination plants will produce water for 
distribution in drinking water supply systems where conventional water resources are under 
pressure; ii) the plants will have a maximum energy intensity of 5 kWh/m 3; and iii) adequate 
waste management plan will be in place for brine disposal. Sustainalytics considers this to be 
aligned with market practice. 
- Under the Clean Transportation category , Saur may finance or refinance  the: i) purchase of 
battery electric vehicles and associated services such as maintenance and leasing services; and 
ii) installation, maintenance and repair of electric vehicle charging stations. Sustainalytics 
considers these expenditures to be aligned with market practice.  
- Under the Renewable Energy category, the Company may finance or refinance solar PV trackers 
and solar PV farms, which Sustainalytics considers to be in line with market practice.  Saur has 
communicated to Sustainalytics that it may also extend financing to other renewable energy 
projects that follow  the EU Taxonomy’s energy generation related substantial contribution 
criteria for climate mitigation .10 Sustainalytics encourages Saur to report on the sources of 
renewable energy generation facilities financed and corresponding environmental impacts. 
- Sustainalytics notes that the Framework excludes  the financing of projects and assets related 
to the following activities: i) fossil fuels; ii) gambling; iii) tobacco; iv)  thermal coal mining; v) 
controversial weapons ; and vi) industrial livestock activities . The Framework also excludes 
projects, assets, expenditures and investments in countries listed under sanction programmes 
of the UN,11 the US Office for Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)12 and the EU.13  
• Project Evaluation and Selection:  
- Saur has established a Green Financing Working Group  which will be responsible for the 
evaluation and selection of projects in line with the Framework’s eligibility criteria. The working 
group is chaired by a member of the Group Treasury and Financing department and consists of 
representatives from the CSR, Financing and Treasury, and Operations departments. 
- Saur has internal policies, procedures and standards in place to address environmental and 
social risks whic h apply to all allocation decisions made under the Framework . The working 
group monitors the eligible projects and ensures that they adhere to the Company’s internal 
policies. Sustainalytics considers this environmental and social risk management system to be 
adequate and aligned with the requirements of the GBP and GLP. For additional details, please 
refer to Section 2 
 
10 This Second-Party Opinion applies only to the expenditures and criteria expressly described in the Framework and those communicated by Saur to 
Sustainalytics before the Evaluation Date. 
11 United Nations Security Council, “Sanctions”, at: https://main.un.org/securitycouncil/en/sanctions/information 
12 U.S. Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control, “Sanctions Programs and Country information”, at: 
https://ofac.treasury.gov/sanctions-programs-and-country-information 
13 EU, “EU Sanctions Map”, at: https://sanctionsmap.eu/#/main  
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
5 
- Based on the establishment of a dedicated working group and the presence of a risk 
management system, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. 
• Management of Proceeds: 
- Saur’s Treasury department will be responsible for the management of proceeds and will track 
their allocation through a portfolio approach using an internal tracking tool. 
- The Company intends to allocate all proceeds within two year s of issuance. Pending full 
allocation, Saur will temporarily invest the unallocated proceeds in cash, cash equivalents or 
other liquid marketable instruments. 
- Saur has communicated to Sustainalytics that instruments issued under the Framework may 
include multi-tranche loan facilities. Saur intends to label only those tranches of such facilities 
whose proceeds will be allocated according to the eligibility criteria in the Framework. 
- Based on the use of an internal tracking system and the disclosure of the temporary use of 
proceeds, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. 
• Reporting: 
- Saur commits to report on the allocation of proceeds and corresponding impacts on its website 
on an annual basis until full allocation or in the event of material changes to the allocation. 
- Allocation reporting will include: i) the total amount of proceeds allocated by category; ii) the 
size of the eligible green portfolio; iii) the share of financing versus refinancing; iv) examples of 
eligible projects; iv) the percentage of EU Taxonomy-aligned eligible projects where available; v) 
the amount of unallocated proceeds and the temporary use of the unallocated proceeds where 
feasible; and vi) material developments related to the eligible projects, if any. 
- Impact reporting may include metrics such as : i) the quantity of drinking water produced (in 
Mm3); ii) the volume of wastewater treated (in Mm3); and iii) the volume of water discharged into 
the natural environment without impact. 
- Saur commits to have an external auditor provide limited assurance report for the allocation of 
proceeds on an annual basis until full allocation.  
- Based on the commitment to allocation and impact reporting , Sustainalytics considers this 
process to be in line with market practice. 
Alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 and Green Loan Principles 2023 
Sustainalytics has determined that the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework aligns with the four core 
components of the GBP and GLP. 
Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of Saur 
Contribution to Saur’s sustainability strategy 
Saur has developed a Sustainable Development Roadmap 2021 -2025 with nine key commitments, of which 
the following three are linked to the financing under the Framework : i) water conservation ; ii) use of 
Environmental Monitoring Interface (EMI) solutions and other technologies for water protection ; and iii) 
decarbonization of the Company and the industry.14  
Saur is committed to helping its customers transition to more sustainable and resilient water management 
practices through its services and technology. The Company has set a target to reduce water withdrawals per 
customer by 0.5% annually compared to the 2021 baseline, and has met this target in 2022 and 2023 since its 
inception.15 The reduction in water withdrawals has been realised through the implementation of the following 
measures: i) installing approximately 200,000 additional  remote reading meters  in 2023; ii) establishing a 
centralized data platform ; iii) enhancing date collection tools and deploying new data analytical tools ; iv)  
identifying contracts that deviate from the target and taking corrective actions; and v) implementing additional 
controls and automation.16 Saur has also developed the REUSE system, which reuses treated wastewater for 
applications such as agricultural irrigation, watering green spaces and replenishing groundwater levels.17 In 
2008, the Company implemented this system in the arid climate region of Mauron in France, and it has since 
been used to irrigate approximately 101 hectares of agricultural land, resulting in a 30% to 50% reduction in 
the annual flow discharged into protected sensitive areas. 18  Additionally, Saur is developing predictive 
 
14 Saur, “Our Sustainability Roadmap”, at: https://www.saur.com/mission-water/csr-sustainability-road-map  
15 Saur, “Accelerating the water transition, everywhere, for everyone – 2023 Integrated CSR report”, at: 
https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905 
16 Ibid. 
17 Ibid. 
18 Saur, “Accelerating the water transition, everywhere, for everyone – 2023 Integrated CSR report”, at: 
https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905 
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
6 
artificial intelligence models to be implemented in its EMI platform.19 The EMI platform provides forecasts of 
increasing drought risk levels by capturing all available environmental data that could potentially influence 
water resources, and has been used by more than 180 local authorities in France. 20,21  Saur has also launched 
a website, info-sécheresse, which provides free access to real-time data on alterations in water resources and 
drought risks in the country.22 
With regard to decarbonization, Saur has set targets to reduce its absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 42% 
and scope 3 emissions23 by 25% by 2030, compared to 2021 levels.24 The targets have been validated by the 
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)  in 2023.25 To achieve these, Saur is working on measures such as 
switching to renewable energy sources through the installation of solar panels and execution of power 
purchase agreements at its sites, and deploying low-carbon vehicles.26 In 2023, Saur achieved a 48% reduction 
in its scope 1 and 2 emissions compared to 2021.27 Additionally, Saur issued its first sustainability-linked bond 
in 2021, with targets for three key performance indicators : i) reduction of water withdrawal ; ii) reduction of 
carbon intensity ; and iii) promoti on of  gender diversity in the Company’s executive management .28  The 
Company achieved targets for all KPIs in 2022 and 2023.29 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework is aligned with the Company’s 
overall sustainability strategy and initiatives and will further the Company’s action on its key environmental 
priorities. 
Approach to managing environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
Sustainalytics recognizes that the proceeds from the instruments issued under the Framework will be directed 
towards eligible projects that are expected to have positive environmental or social impacts. However, 
Sustainalytics is aware that such eligible p rojects could also lead to negative environmental and social 
outcomes. Some key environmental and social risks possibly associated with the eligible projects may include 
issues related to: i) land use and biodiversity issues associated with large -scale infrastructure development; 
ii) emissions, effluents and waste generated in construction ; iii) occupational health and safety (OHS) ; iv) 
product service and quality; v) community relations and stakeholder participation. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Saur is able to manage and mitigate potential risks through 
implementation of the following:  
- Saur has an internal control system  named Vigilance Plan. The system regularly assesses all 
company activities and internal procedures , covering the Company’s  key risk areas such as  
health and safety, environment, human rights and freedom, and ethics and compliance. 30 The 
Vigilance Plan sets out guidelines and procedures for five key components: i) risk mapping; ii) 
regular assessment of subsidiaries, subcontractors and suppliers; iii)  actions to mitigate risks 
and prevent sever impact; iv) a mechanism for whistleblowing and receiving reports and v) a 
system for monitoring measures and assessing their effectiveness. Specifically for suppliers 
and subcontractors, the Company’s purchasing department conducts a multi -criteria supplier 
assessment on human rights, labour law, anti-corruption, OHS and environmental management 
during the selection process, annually until the end of the contract.31 In addition, the Ethics and 
Compliance department evaluates the integrity and reputation risk of the Company’s suppliers, 
with those identified as critical being subject to further assessment.32  
 
19 Ibid. 
20 Saur, “How does EMI Patrimoine help local authorities optimize their investments?”, (2021), at: https://blog.saur.com/en/how-does-emi-patrimoine-
help-local-authorities-optimize-their-investments 
21 Ibid. 
22 Saur, “integrated CSR report 2023”, at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905 
23 Saur has communicated to Sustainalytics that scope 3 emissions encompass emissions from purchased goods and services, fuel and energy related 
activities, upstream transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting, use of sold products and end 
of life treatment of sold products. 
24 Saur has shared the information with Sustainalytics. 
25 SBTi, “Companies Taking Actions”, at: https://sciencebasedtargets.org/companies-taking-action 
26 Saur, “Accelerating the water transition, everywhere, for everyone – 2023 Integrated CSR report”, at: 
https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905  
27 Ibid. 
28 Saur, “Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework”, at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-Sustainability-Linked-Financing-
Framework-May-2024-update-v2.pdf?v=1715961464 
29 Saur, “Accelerating the water transition, everywhere, for everyone – 2023 Integrated CSR report”, at: 
https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905 
30 Saur, “Saur Group Vigilance Plan 2022”, at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-Group-Vigilance-Plan-2022.pdf?v=1653028689 
31 Ibid. 
32 Ibid. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
7 
- To manage risks associated with biodiversity, land use, and emissions, effluents and waste, Saur 
has implemented an environmental management system certified by ISO 14001.33 Additionally, 
for water effluents generated by its operations, the Company monitors the quality of the water 
treated at its wastewater treatment plants and is subject to a regular audit by the water 
supervisory authorities.34 Furthermore, for projects located in the EU, Saur complies with: i) the 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Directive (2014/52/EU), which requires all projects with 
potentially significant environmental impacts to be properly assessed before approval;35 ii) the 
EU Construction and Demolition Waste Protocol and Guidelines, 36 the EU Waste Framework 
Directive,37 the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive 38 and the European Waste 
Shipment Regulation.39. 
- In terms of managing OHS risks, Saur has a health and safety prevention policy that covers all 
employees, business partners and subcontractors at its sites. The policy sets out requirements 
on hygiene, health and safety in the working environment and requires regular monitoring.40 In 
addition, Saur has an ISO 45001 -certified safety management system, which includes an 
assessment of occupational risks, development of action plans for significant risks and on-site 
audits. 41  For external contractors, the Company implements prevention plans and general 
coordination plans along with regular safety audits to assess the implementation of  the OHS 
measures.42 Saur’s France Safety Committee oversees all structural prevention actions on a 
quarterly basis, aiming to achieve the Company's objective of a zero-accident workplace.43 
- Regarding issues related to Saur’s water supply reliability and water quality, the quality and 
quantity of water in each treatment plant is monitored on a continuous basis by local authorities. 
Furthermore, water samples are examined by laboratories approved by France’s Regional Health 
Agencies (ARS) in accordance with the ARS' annual programme.44  
- To manage risks related to community relations and stakeholder participation, Saur conducted 
a double materiality assessment in 2020 and engaged more than 38,000 stakeholders, including 
local authorities, citizens, farmers, industries, experts and NGOs for feedback on the impact of 
Saur’s activities.45 The Company is currently working on a new double materiality assessment 
planned to be published in 2025, and has conducted surveys with more than 100 internal and 10 
external stakeholders. 46  In addition, Saur has established a whistleblowing procedure for 
internal and external stakeholders to anonymously report misconduct incidents.47  
- Sustainalytics further notes that most of Saur’s operations are located in France, which is 
recognized as a Designated Country under the Equator Principles, indicating the presence of 
robust environmental and social governance systems, legislation and institutional capacity to 
mitigate common environment and social risks associated with the eligible projects.48  
 
Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Saur has 
implemented adequate measures and is well  positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social  
risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. 
 
33 Saur, “Accelerating the water transition, everywhere, for everyone – 2023 Integrated CSR report”, at: 
https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905 
34 Saur, “Saur Group Vigilance Plan 2022”, at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-Group-Vigilance-Plan-2022.pdf?v=1653028689 
35 European Parliament, “Directive 2014/52/EU on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment”, (2014), at: 
https://eurlex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32014L0052.   
36 European Commission, “EU Construction and Demolition Waste Protocol and Guidelines”, (2018), at: https://single-market-
economy.ec.europa.eu/news/eu-construction-and-demolition-waste-protocol-2018-09-18_en  
37 European Parliament, “Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on waste and repealing certain 
Directives”, at: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32008L0098  
38 EUR-Lex, “Directive 2012/19/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE)”, 
(2012), at: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32012L0019  
39 EUR-Lex, “Regulation (EC) No 1013/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 on shipments of waste”, at: https://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32006R1013     
40 Saur, “Saur Group Vigilance Plan 2022”, at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-Group-Vigilance-Plan-2022.pdf?v=1653028689  
41 Ibid. 
42 Ibid. 
43 Saur, “Accelerating the water transition, everywhere, for everyone – 2023 Integrated CSR report”, at: 
https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905  
44 Saur, “Saur Group Vigilance Plan 2022”, at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-Group-Vigilance-Plan-2022.pdf?v=1653028689 
45 Saur, “RAPPORT INTÉGRÉ 2020”, at: https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/FR_SAUR_RI-2020_mai-2021_BD_PAP.pdf?v=1643822972 
46 Saur has shared the information with Sustainalytics on a confidential basis. 
47 Saur, “Accelerating the water transition, everywhere, for everyone – 2023 Integrated CSR report”, at: 
https://dnr54354splcz.cloudfront.net/publications/Saur-RI2023_EN-014-Web.pdf?v=1715840905 
48 Equator Principles, “Designated and Non-Designated Countries”, at: https://equator-principles.com/about-the-equator-principles/  
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
8 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
The five use of proceeds categories are aligned with those recognized by the GBP and GLP. Sustainalytics 
has focused below on where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. 
Importance of financing water management projects in France  
Renewable water supplies have declined in France by 14% between 1990-2001 and 2002 -2018 periods,49,50 
and climate change effects are expected to aggravate the problem, pushing this decline to up to 40% by 
2050.51,52 Since 2015, for example, more than half of French departments have had water use restrictions 
during the summer ; in the 2023 winter, a national drought marked a record 32 days without significant 
precipitation.53 In parts of the west and southwest of France,  water use restrictions lasting for at least two 
months have been enforced every year since at least 2012.54 
In view of this loo ming water crisis, the French government launched the “Water” plan in the spring of 2023 , 
announcing 53 initiatives to reduce water use and improve the measurement and planning of water resources, 
backed by a EUR 500 million annual investment shared with local governments.55,56 Key objectives of the plan 
include: i) reducing water abstraction by 10% by 2030  relative to 2023, ii) improving water efficiency across 
all economic sectors with a  special focus on agricultural sector ; and iii) enhancing drought crisis 
management.57 Additionally, the plan aims to secure water quality and supply through measures such as 
reducing water leaks, promoting non -conventional water sources  such as the reuse of treated waste water, 
rainwater and grey water, combating pollution and restoring ecosystems, supported by improved governance 
and increased funding .58 The plan also includes an emergency fund of EUR 180 million to repair leaks and 
upgrade water networks, starting from identifying the most vulnerable areas, which are determined based on 
leakage rates and water stress levels . 59  As part of the plan,  the agri -food sector, which accounts for 
approximately 58% of the total water consumption, has been granted the possibility to use recycled water for 
certain types of activities subject to specific authorization, from the beginning of 2024.60, 61 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Saur’s investments in water supply and management 
will contribute to France’s efforts in relation to water use and management. 
Contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals were adopted in September 2015 by the United Nations General 
Assembly and form part of an agenda for achieving sustainable development by 2030. The instruments issued 
under the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework are expected to help advance the following SDG s and 
targets:  
Use of Proceeds 
Category 
SDG SDG target 
Water Production and 
Supply 
6. Clean Water and 
Sanitation 
6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable 
access to safe and affordable drinking water 
for all 
 
49 France Stratégie, “Prélèvements et consommations d’eau : quels enjeux et usages?”, (2024), at: 
https://www.strategie.gouv.fr/publications/prelevements-consommations-deau-enjeux-usages 
50 “Évolutions de la ressource en eau renouvelable en France métropolitaine de 1990 à 2018”, at: https://www.statistiques.developpement-
durable.gouv.fr/evolutions-de-la-ressource-en-eau-renouvelable-en-france-metropolitaine-de-1990-2018  
51 Ibid. 
52 Government of France, Ministry of Ecology, “53 MESURES POUR L’EAU”, (2023), at: 
https://www.ecologie.gouv.fr/sites/default/files/documents/MAR2023_DP-PLAN%20EAU__BAT%20(1).pdf 
53 Ibid. 
54 Government of France, General Commissariat for Sustainable Development, “Gestion de l’eau en période de sécheresse en France métropolitaine”, 
(2023), at: https://www.notre-environnement.gouv.fr/themes/economie/l-utilisation-des-ressources-naturelles-ressources/article/gestion-de-l-eau-en-
periode-de-secheresse-en-france-metropolitaine-6326 
55 Élysée Palace, “Présentation du Plan eau.”, (2023), at: https://www.elysee.fr/emmanuel-macron/2023/03/30/presentation-du-plan-eau 
56 Légifrance, “Journal officiel électronique authentifié n° 0162 du 09/07/2024”, at: 
https://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/download/pdf?id=PVgGRkg5g2HaAs0-cs-mWO7mT0ji9z3kMMVYU8Jy7sc=  
57 United Nations, “Water plan 2023-2030 « for a resilient and concerted management of water resources, promoting water savings », first part of the 
French ecological planning”, at: https://sdgs.un.org/partnerships/plan-eau-2023-2030-pour-une-gestion-resiliente-sobre-et-concertee-de-la-ressource-en 
58 Ibid. 
59 Government of France, Ministry of Ecology, “53 MESURES POUR L’EAU”, (2023), at: 
https://www.ecologie.gouv.fr/sites/default/files/documents/MAR2023_DP-PLAN%20EAU__BAT%20(1).pdf 
60 Water Reuse Europe, “France releases a new decree clarifying the use of recycled water in the food industry”, at: https://www.water-reuse-
europe.org/france-releases-a-new-decree-clarifying-the-use-of-recycled-water-in-the-food-industry/#page-content 
61 Rosie F. (2023), “Macron unveils France’s plan to share, reuse and save water in the face of drought”, Euronews, at: 
https://www.euronews.com/green/2023/03/30/macron-unveils-frances-plan-to-share-reuse-and-save-water-in-the-face-of-drought 
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
9 
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use 
efficiency across all sectors and ensure 
sustainable withdrawals and supply of 
freshwater to address water scarcity and 
substantially reduce the number of people 
suffering from water scarcity 
Wastewater Collection 
and Treatment 
6. Clean Water and 
Sanitation 
6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing 
pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing 
release of hazardous chemicals and materials, 
halving the proportion of untreated wastewater 
and substantially increasing recycling and safe 
reuse globally  
Desalination of Water 6. Clean Water and 
Sanitation 
6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable 
access to safe and affordable drinking water 
for all 
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use 
efficiency across all sectors and ensure 
sustainable withdrawals and supply of 
freshwater to address water scarcity and 
substantially reduce the number of people 
suffering from water scarcity 
Clean Transportation 11. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities 
11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, 
affordable, accessible and sustainable 
transport systems for all, improving road 
safety, notably by expanding public transport, 
with special attention to the needs of those in 
vulnerable situations, women, children, persons 
with disabilities and older persons 
Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix 
 
Conclusion  
Saur has developed the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework under which it may issue green and blue 
bonds and loans, and use the proceeds to finance projects related to water production and supply, wastewater 
collection and treatment, desalination, clean transportation and renewable energy. Sustainalytics considers 
that the eligible projects are expected to provide positive environmental impacts.  
The Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework outlines a process for tracking, allocation and management of 
proceeds, and makes commitments for reporting on allocation and impact. Sustainalytics considers that the 
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of Saur and that the 
use of proceeds  will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals  6, 7 and 11.  
Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Saur has adequate measures to ident ify, manage and 
mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects. 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Saur SAS is well positioned to issue green and blue bonds 
and loans, and that the Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework is robust, transparent and in alignment with 
the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2021 and Green Loan Principles 2023. 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
10 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2024 Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of 
Sustainalytics and/or content providers, and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format 
disclosed by Sustainalytics. They are not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by India -based 
clients or users and their distribution to Indian resident individuals or entities is not permitted. 
They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) shall not be considered as being a statement, 
representation, warranty or argument either in favor or against the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of 
any facts or statements that the issuer has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this deliverable, 
in light of the circumstances under which such facts or statements have been presented; (2) do not constitute 
an endorsement of any product , project, investment strategy or consideration of any particular environmental, 
social or governance related issues as part of any investment strategy; (3) do not constitute investment 
advice, financial advice, or a prospectus, nor represent an “expert opinion” or “negative assurance letter” as 
these terms are commonly understood or defined by any applicable legislation; (4) are not part of any offering 
and do not constitute an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of 
business transactions; (5) do not  represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial 
obligations nor of its creditworthiness; (6) are not a substitute for professional advice; (7) past performance 
is no guarantee of future results; (8) have not been submitted to, nor received approval from, any relevant 
regulatory body; (9) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure, unless otherwise agreed 
in writing. 
These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their 
merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up -to-datedness or fitness for a particular purpose Sustainalytics 
has not independently verified any such information or data. The deliverables are provided “as is” and reflect 
Sustainalytics’ opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics does not undertake any 
obligation to update or revise any of the statements in the deliverable to re flect events, circumstances, 
changes in expectations which may occur after the date of the opinion or any statements included in the 
opinion. Neither Sustainalytics/Morningstar nor their content providers accept any liability from the use of the 
information, data or opinions contained herein or for actions of third parties in respect to this information, in 
any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Sustainalytics does not assume any 
responsibility shall the bond default. Any reference to content providers’ names is for appropriate 
acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. 
A list of our content providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more 
information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 
Sustainalytics may receive compensation for its ratings, opinions and other deliverables, from, among others, 
issuers, insurers, guarantors and/or underwriters of debt securities, or investors, via different business units. 
Sustainalytics believes it has p ut in place appropriate measures designed to safeguard the objectivity and 
independence of its opinions. For more information, visit Governance Documents  or contact 
compliance@sustainalytics.com.  
This deliverable, in particular the images, text and graphics contained therein, and the layout and company 
logo of Sustainalytics are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof shall require express 
prior written consent. Use shall be de emed to refer in particular to the copying or duplication of the opinion 
wholly or in part, the distribution of the opinion, either free of charge or against payment, or the exploitation 
of this opinion in any other conceivable manner. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Saur Green & Blue Financing Framework  
  
 
  
 
11 
About Morningstar Sustainalytics 
Morningstar Sustainalytics is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around 
the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. For more than 30 
years, the firm has been at the forefront of  developing high-quality, innovative solutions to meet the evolving 
needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers 
and pension funds, which incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their 
investment processes. Sustainalytics also works with hundreds of companies and their financial 
intermediaries to help them consider sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. For more 
information, visit www.sustainalytics.com.