I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  1  o f  13  
 
 
 
PR E- I SS UANC E  C L I M ATE B O ND  
C E R TI FI C ATIO N 
 
 
Verification Report for Pre -Issuance Certification  
for the Green Bond Issued by ELLAKTOR  GROUP  
 
 
 
SCOPE  
ELLAKTOR Group (Ellaktor) commissioned ISS ESG to compile a Verifier’s Report for Pre-Issuance 
Certification of its Green Bond by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI). The Climate Bonds Certification 
process includes verifying whether the provisions of the Climate Bonds Standards issued by the CBI 
are met and obtaining evidence to support the verification. 
CRITERIA  
Relevant CBI Standards for this Climate Bonds Certification:  
▪ Climate Bonds Standard (Version 2.1) 
ISSUER’S RESPONSIBILITY  
ELLAKTOR’s responsibility was to provide information and documentation on:  
▪ Selection of nominated projects & assets 
▪ Technical aspects of projects & assets 
▪ Internal processes & controls 
▪ Proposed reporting  
  

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  2  o f  13  
 
ISS ESG ’s VERIFICATION PROCESS  
ISS ESG is one of the world’s leading independent environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
research, analysis and rating houses. The company has been actively involved in the sustainable 
capital markets for over 25 years. Since 2014, ISS ESG has built up a reputation as a highly-reputed 
thought leader in the green and social bond market and has become one of the first CBI approved 
verifiers.  
ISS ESG has been conducted this independent Pre-Issuance Verification Process of the green bond 
issued by ELLAKTOR based on the Climate Bond Standards 2.1. and in line with the limited assurance 
procedure defined by the International Standard on Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). 
ISS ESG’s approach to assess whether the issuer’s Green Bond meets the criteria of the Climate Bond 
Standards 2.1. is as follows: 
▪ The issuer provided an overview over the assets to be included in the Green Bond asset pool and 
the relevant processes and documentation regarding the proceeds (e.g. use of proceeds, 
management of proceeds) to ISS ESG.  
▪ The issuer filled in a questionnaire that covers all criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard 2.1.  
▪ The issuer provided background documents that elaborate further on the information 
mentioned in the questionnaire.  
▪ Using the questionnaire and background documents, ISS ESG carried out an assessment of the 
CBI criteria. In case any answers were unclear, ISS ESG contacted the issuer for more details and 
clarification. 
The engagement with ELLAKTOR took place in November 2019. 
ISS ESG ’s BUSINESS PRACTICES  
ISS has conducted this verification in strict compliance with the ISS Code of Ethics, which lays out 
detailed requirements in integrity, transparency and objectivity for the ISS business and team 
members. It is designed to ensure that the verification is conducted independently and without any 
conflicts of interest with other parts of the ISS Group. 
RESTR ICTION ON DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF REPORT  
This Verification Report for Climate Bonds Certification including all documentation provided 
alongside is intended for the use of ELLAKTOR and the Climate Bonds Standard Board. The present 
document may be published by ELLAKTOR, CBI and ISS ESG. CBI and ISS ESG agree to publish the 
report with the consent of ELLAKTOR.  
 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  3  o f  13  
 
OPINION  
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, nothing has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects ELLAKTOR’s 2019 Green Bond is 
not in conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements. 
 
  
R O B E R T  H A ß L E R   
ISS ESG 
Munich, 21 November 2019 
 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  4  o f  13  
 
Disclaimer  
Copyright © 2019 Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (“ISS”). This document and all of the 
information contained in it is the property of ISS and/or its subsidiaries. The Information may not be 
reproduced or redisseminated in whole or in part without the prior written permission of ISS. While 
we exercise due care in compiling this document, we assume no liability with respect to the 
consequences of relying on this information for investment or other purposes. ISS makes no express 
or implied warranties or representations with respect to the information. 
 
About ISS ESG  
Since March 2018, ISS-oekom has been a member of the ISS family, sitting within the ISS ESG 
business unit, which also includes ISS-ethix and ISS-Climate. ISS ESG provides high quality solutions 
for sustainable and responsible investment and corporate governance. The External Review team, 
covering Second Party Opinions (SPOs) and Climate Bond Certifications is made up of colleagues 
across ISS ESG, from ISS-oekom and ISS-Climate. 
Originally founded in 1993 and formerly known as oekom research, ISS ESG is one of the world’s 
leading ESG research and rating agencies for sustainable investments with an unsurpassed rating 
methodology and quality recognition. ISS ESG analyzes businesses and countries with respect to 
their environmental social and governance performance. As an experienced partner of institutional 
investors and financial service providers, we analyse the level of responsibility exercised by equity 
and bond issuers towards society and the environment. Under the new ownership, ISS ESG 
completes the ESG research and RI services offerings of ISS, making it a worldwide pure-player in the 
area of RI Research & Solutions. ISS ESG is headed by Robert Haßler, former CEO and co-founder of 
oekom research. More information: www.oekom-research.com and www.issgovernance.com. 
 
Contact  
Federico Pezzolato – SPO Business Manager 
ISS Corporate Solutions, 1 London Bridge, London, SE1 9BG 
tel: +44 (0) 203 192 5760 
e-mail: SPO@isscorporatesolutions.com  
  
 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  5  o f  13  
 
ANNEX  
Annex 1: Detailed Findings 
Annex 2: Detailed Findings Solar Power 
Annex 3: Detailed Findings Wind Power (onshore) 
Annex 4: Green Bond Framework 
  
 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  6  o f  13  
 
ANNEX 1: DETAILED FINDINGS  
1.  SELECTION OF NOMINATED PROJECTS & ASSETS  
 REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
1.1. 
Decision-making 
process to determine 
eligibility of 
nominated projects 
& assets. 
The ELLAKTOR Group’s key objectives and strategic 
priorities include the effective management of the 
environmental impact from its operation, taking all 
the necessary prevention and corrective measures 
to protect the environment and natural resources, 
and seeking to systematically have the lowest 
possible impact on the environment. 
As a part of this objective, ELLAKTOR aims to 
continuously expand their renewable power 
generation capacity, with a target of c.579MW for 
their renewable asset portfolio by 2020.  
 
1.2. 
Assessment of 
proposed nominated 
projects & assets.  
ELLAKTOR ensures that all selected eligible assets 
comply with official national and international 
environmental and social standards and local laws 
and regulations on a best effort basis. It is part of 
ELLAKTOR’s ESR transaction approval process to 
ensure, that all its assets comply with internal 
environmental and social directives, including those 
financed with the proceeds of the Green Bonds.  
 
1.3. 
Documentation of 
eligibility of 
nominated projects 
& assets. 
ELLAKTOR has established a selection process 
based on detailed eligibility criteria. A list of 
nominated assets is documented internally. 
Projects financed and/or refinanced through the 
Green Bond proceeds are evaluated and selected 
based on compliance with the Eligibility Criteria by 
ELLAKTOR’s RES Department and the Treasury 
Team.  
 
1.4. 
No double 
nomination of 
projects & assets. 
The Green bond proceeds will be managed by a 
Green Bond Register that ELLAKTOR will establish. 
The proceeds of each ELLAKTOR Green Bond will be 
deposited in ELLAKTOR’s general funding accounts 
and earmarked for allocation in the Green Bond 
Register. The register will contain the list of assets 
along with the amount of Green Bond proceeds 
earmarked towards those assets in order to avoid 
any double counting.  
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  7  o f  13  
 
1.5. 
Net proceeds in 
relation to issuer’s 
debt obligation. 
ELLAKTOR has already identified a portfolio of more 
than EUR600 M of eligible onshore wind and solar 
assets for its expected EUR600 M inaugural Green 
Bond. 
 
 
2.  INTERNAL PROCESSES & CONTROLS  
 REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
2.1.1. Tracking of 
proceeds 
The Green bond proceeds will be managed by 
ELLAKTOR using a Green Bond register.  
ELLAKTOR intends to allocate the proceeds from 
the Green Bonds to an Eligible Green Asset 
Portfolio, selected in accordance with the use of 
proceeds criteria and evaluation and selection 
process set out in their Green Bond Framework. 
 
2.1.2. 
Managing 
unallocated 
proceeds 
Whilst any Green Bond net proceeds remain 
unallocated, ELLAKTOR will hold and/or invest, at 
its own discretion, an amount equal to the balance 
of such proceeds in cash, cash equivalents and/or 
government securities, or repay other short-term 
borrowings. 
 
2.1.3. 
Earmarking funds 
to nominated 
projects & assets 
The proceeds of each ELLAKTOR Green Bond will be 
deposited in ELLAKTOR’s general funding accounts 
and earmarked for allocation in the Green Bond 
register.  
The register will contain the list of assets along with 
the amount of Green Bond proceeds earmarked 
towards those assets in order to avoid any double 
counting. It will also contain information on the 
breakdown of financing vs refinancing. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  8  o f  13  
 
3.  REPORTING PRIOR TO ISSUANCE  
 REQUIREMENT FACTUAL FINDINGS 
ANALYSIS 
AGAINST 
REQUIREMENTS 
3.1.1. Disclosure on 
investment areas  
ELLAKTOR has confirmed that it will report prior 
to issuance that all nominated assets fall into one 
project category as listed in Clause 9.1 of the 
Climate Bonds Standard.  
 
3.1.2. 
Disclosure on 
intended types of 
temporary 
investment 
instruments 
Whilst any Green Bond net proceeds remain 
unallocated, ELLAKTOR will hold and/or invest, at 
its own discretion, an amount equal to the 
balance of such proceeds in cash, cash equivalents 
and/or government securities, or repay other 
short-term borrowings. 
 
3.1.3. 
Disclosure 
regarding pre-
issuance 
verification  
ELLAKTOR has confirmed that it will report prior 
to issuance on its pre-issuance verification 
procedure on a no-name basis.   
3.1.4. 
Disclosure on 
periodic assurance 
engagements 
ELLAKTOR will not undertake periodic assurance 
engagements.  
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  9  o f  13  
 
ANNEX 2:  DETAILED FINDINGS SOLAR POWER  
 
 
The Green Bond Asset Pool complies with the Solar Power criteria of the Climate 
Bonds Initiative. 
All onshore solar parks are eligible for the Climate Bonds Initiative 
 
 
ANNEX 3 : DETAILED FINDINGS WIND POWER (ONSHORE)  
 
 
The Green Bond Asset Pool complies with the Wind Power criteria of the Climate 
Bonds Initiative. 
All onshore wind farms are eligible for the Climate Bonds Initiative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  10  o f  13  
 
ANNEX 4: Green Bond Framework  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ellaktor  
Green Bond Framework 
November 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  11  o f  13  
 
Introduction  
Established in 1950, Ellaktor Group (“Ellaktor” or “We”) is a diversified infrastructure group with a 
leading position in attractive sectors including Concessions, Renewables, Environment and Real 
Estate, underpinned by a presence in Construct ion. It has strong financial backing from local and 
international banks, which provide both corporate and non-recourse funding. 
Ellaktor’s ‘Renewables’ business operates wind power, solar PV and hydro power generation 
throughout Greece with a total planned capacity of c.579MW by 2020. Ellaktor has been operating in 
renewable energy sources since 2000, via its subsidiary EL.TECH. ANEMOS, a company listed in ATHEX 
and in the process of merger by absorption with the parent company. EL.TECH. ANEMOS is the second 
largest wind energy producer in Greece with vast experience and knowhow in the development, 
construction, operation and maintenance of wind parks. 
Regulatory support regime entails Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with guaranteed off -take by 
the market o perator (DAPEEP). Moreover, the Greek Government has reaffrmed its intention to 
promote RES up to year 2030, by putting out for public consultation a policy package of specific 
quantitative supportive measures (National Energy Planning, Ministry of Environ ment and Energy, 
November 2018). 
Sustainability at Ellaktor 
The Group’s environmental policy is focused on two areas: 
• Use of environmental management systems to achieve maximum minimisation of the impact 
of projects on the environment, and taking initiatives on recycling, energy saving and the 
protection of flora and fauna. 
• Group operations in areas promoting environmental sustainability, such as wind and solar 
projects, as well as waste management, recycling and energy recovery from waste projects 
The existence of a Sustainability Department demonstrates the importance the Group is placing on 
this strategy; meanwhile the creation of the newly-established Regulatory Compliance Committee of 
ELLAKTOR Group, reflects fully our devotion to self -regulation and commitment above and beyond 
the legal obligations. Protection and respect of the environment is something that the Group and its 
subsidiaries have always been pursuing, and it is in this light that the Group adopted the 10 Principles 
of the UN Global Compact. 
To ensure high Quality standards are met, the Quality department has developed a specific 
methodology for assessing the risk from an activity or product to the health of people, animals, plants 
and/ or the environment, and all risks have been an alyzed and quantified on the basis of their 
consequences. Such assessment is mostly related to standards ISO45001:2018 (Occupational Health 
& Safety) and 14001:2015 (Environmental Management). But since the analysis and quantification 
parameters do not apply for standard ISO9001:2015, the Group’s Quality Management Department 
performed all necessary reviews in all certified companies (e.g. AKTOR, TOMI, AKTOR FM, AKTOR 
CONCESSIONS, ATTIKES DIADROMES, MOREAS, etc.). 
 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  12  o f  13  
 
Green Bond Framework  
As part of our continued commitment to sustainability, we have developed a Green Bond Framework 
(the “Framework”) which is in accordance with the Green Bond Principles 20181 (the “GBP”) and under 
which Ellaktor can issue Green Bond(s). 
 
For each Green Bond issued, we will adopt the following as set out in this Framework: 
 
1) Use of Proceeds, 
2) Project Evaluation and Selection, 
3) Management of Proceeds, and  
4) Reporting 
 
1. Use of Proceeds:  
The net proceeds from any Ellaktor Green Bond will be applied, in part or in full, to finance or refinance 
new and existing projects and assets meeting the following eligibility criteria (“Eligible Green 
Projects”): 
ICMA GBP 2018 
Project Category  
Eligibility Criteria Alignment with the UN SDG 
targets2 
Renewable Energy 
 
• Financing or refinancing of onshore wind, 
and solar PV energy generation projects and 
assets and assoc iated development / 
research / construction / production costs 
SDG 7.2:  By 2030, increase 
substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global 
energy mix 
 
2. Project Selection: 
We will select projects and assets in alignment with the eligibility criteria defined above for inclusion 
into a Green Bond. Projects selected for inclusion will be selected based on compliance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard Sector Technical Requirements for ‘Wind Energy’ and ‘Solar Energy’. The 
Renewable Energy Sources (RES) and Treasury Team will be responsible for selecting the projects in 
alignment with the eligibility criteria defined above.  
All the eligible projects will have secured Environmental Permits from pertinent Authorities. These are 
issued acc. to Greek legislation (law 4014/2011) which is in line with EU Directives, following a 
comprehensive Environmental Impacts Assessment Study, the consideration of numerous official 
Opinions from variou s state agencies incl. Local Government and extensive public consultation 
(citizens, stakeholders & organizations). 
                                                             
1 Green Bond Principles 2018 - https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/June-2018/Green-Bond-
Principles---June-2018-140618-WEB.pdf 
2 UN Sustainable Development Goals - https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ 

 
 
 
 
 
I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G  13  o f  13  
 
The Finance Department will be responsible of allocating the proceeds of the Green Bond to the 
selected portfolio of Eligible Green Projects. 
3. Management of Proceeds: 
We will oversee the allocation and tracking of expenditures on Eligible Green Projects up to an amount 
equal to the net proceeds of Green Bond(s) issued.  
To manage this oversight, we will establish a Green Bond Register. Pending allocation, the net 
proceeds of the Green Bond will be deposited in our general funding accounts and earmarked for 
allocation in the Green Bond Register. Pending allocation of the net proceeds, we may temporarily 
invest an amount equal to the balance of such proceeds in cash, cash equivalents and/or government 
securities, or repay other short -term borrowings.  Payment of principal and interest on the Green 
Bond will be made from our general funds and will not be directly linked to the performance of any 
Eligible Green Project. 
The Green Bond Register will be reviewed biannually by the Treasury Team. 
Proceeds are expected to be fully allocated within 24 months of issuance to new projects and / or 
refinancing of existing projects identified under the use of proceeds section above. Any net proceeds 
will not be invested in fossil fuel related projects. 
4. Reporting: 
We will publish a report within one year from the issue date and thereafter on an annual basis, 
including: 
• Allocation reporting: 
• Breakdown of allocation of proceeds by nominated projects and assets, and; 
• Breakdown of allocation by geography; 
• Breakdown of allocation between refinancing and financing; and 
• Any unallocated proceeds 
• Impact reporting: Where possible, we will aim to provide the following impact metrics as a 
part of our annual reporting: 
• Renewable energy production (MWh) per year; and 
• CO2 emissions reduction/avoidance (tonnes of CO2 eq.) 
The report will be published as a part of our Sustainability Report on the company website 
https://ellaktor.com/en/sustainability-reports/. 
5. External Review: 
We will appoint an external party to provide verification of the Green Bond as an independent and 
approved verifier under the Climate Bond Standard. We intend to appoint an external party to review 
our reporting as set forth above on an annual basis. Our references to any external criteria or 
standards are only in respect of such criteria or standards as in effect on the Issue Date.