Kestrel Verifiers  |  kestrelverifiers.com 
Post-Issuance Verification Report 
ISSUER 
California Educational Facilities Authority  
FRAMEWORK 
Stanford University Series V-2 Green Bond Framework (March 31, 2021) 
STANDARD AND SECTOR CRITERIA 
 
 Low Carbon Buildings  
 
TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT 
Post-Issuance Verification 
ENGAGEMENT PERIOD 
February 2023 
BONDS ISSUED UNDER FRAMEWORK 
Revenue Bonds (Stanford University) Series V-2 (Sustainability Bonds – Climate Bond Certified)  
PAR 
$300,400,000 
SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES 
In April 2021, the California Educational Facilities Authority  issued a series of Certified Climate Bonds on 
behalf of Stanford University ( “Stanford” or the “University” ). The Revenue Bonds (Stanford University) 
Series V -2 (Sustainability Bonds – Climate Bond Certified) (“Series V -2 Bonds” ) financed capital 
improvements which supported the University’s emission reduction goals. The bonds received Pre-Issuance 
Certification by the Climate Bonds Initiative (“CBI”) Standard Board in 2021 under the Low Carbon Buildings 
Sector Criteria. The Climate Bonds Standard (Version 3.0) and Certification Scheme requires a Post-Issuance 
Verification Report within 24 months of issuance. Stanford  engaged Kestrel Verifiers in February 2023 to 
review the Nominated Projects and Assets financed by the designated bonds, and provide an assessment 
as to whether the projects conform with the Climate Bonds Standard Post-Issuance Requirements. In our 
opinion, the Series V-2 Bonds are aligned with the internationally accepted Climate Bonds Standard and the 
Low Carbon Buildings Sector Criteria. 
This Post -Issuance Verification Report reflects Kestrel Verifiers’ view of the University’s projects and 
financing, allocation and oversight, and conformance of the Series V-2 Bonds with the Climate Bonds 
Standard (Version 3.0) and Low Carbon Buildings  Sector Criteria. In our opinion, the Series V -2 Bonds 
continue to be aligned with the Climate Bonds Standard, the Low Carbon Buildings Sector Criteria, and the 
University’s goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030. 
CONFORMANCE WITH CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD AND SECTOR CRITERIA 
In March 2021, Stanford engaged Kestrel Verifiers to provide an independent verification on the alignment 
of the Series V-2 Bonds with the Climate Bonds Standard (Version 3.0) and Certification Scheme, and the 
Low Carbon Buildings Sector Criteria. CBI administers the Standard and Sector Criteria. 
Kestrel Verifiers is a Climate Bonds Initiative Approved Verifier. The Kestrel Verification Team included 
environmental scientists, social scientists and financial professionals. We performed a Reasonable Assurance 
engagement to independently verify that the bonds met, in all material respects, relevant criteria. 

Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  2 
Prior to bond issuance , Kestrel Verifiers reviewed Stanford’s bond disclosure, Green Bond Framework, 
disclosures and documentation on the allocation and uses of bond proceeds, as well as relevant plans and 
alignment to Stanford ’s overarching climate action objectives. We examined public and non -public 
information and interviewed key staff at Stanford. Our goal was to understand the actual use of proceeds, 
execution of procedures for managing proceeds, ongoing reporting practices, and plans for future reporting 
on the Series V-2 Bonds.  
Assurance Approach 
Post-issuance, Kestrel Verifiers’ responsibility  was to conduct a Reasonable Assurance engagement to 
determine whether the Series V-2 Bonds met requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard and were used 
as intended. Our Reasonable Assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard (Version 3.0) and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), 
Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Information 
relating to this engagement and the Verifier’s and Issuer’s Responsibilities, and Independence and Quality 
Control, are available in Appendix A and B. 
Kestrel Verifiers has relied on information provided by the University. There are inherent limitations in 
performing assurance, and fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. Kestrel Verifiers 
is not responsible or liable for any opinions, findings or conclusions within the information provided by the 
University that are incorrect. Our assurance is limited to University policies and procedures in place as of 
February 2023. The distribution and use of this verification report are at the sole discretion of the University. 
Kestrel Verifiers does not accept or assume any responsibility for distribution to any other person or 
organization. 
Use of Proceeds and Conformance with Sector Criteria 
The California Educational Facilities Authority issued the Series V-2 Bonds in the amount of $300,400,000 
to finance and refinance capital improvement projects on the Stanford University campus. These projects 
support the continued growth of the University and enable the University to reach the goal of zero 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.  
Updates to Nominated Project List  
Since the issuance of the Series V-2 Bonds, the University has experienced some project scheduling delays. 
As a result, and to manage cash flow for high priority capital projects, the University has removed certain 
projects from the original list of projects nominated to receive bond proceeds (Appendix C) and replaced 
these with other projects. Kestrel has reviewed the updated project list (Appendix D) and has determined 
that all Series V-2 Bond projects, including the substituted projects, continue to be aligned with the Climate 
Bonds Standard (Version 3.0) and Low Carbon Buildings Criteria (Version 1.0). 
The Series V-2 Bond proceeds will no longer finance the following projects, which have been removed from 
the original list of nominated projects: 
 Neuro/ChEM-H Research Complex, which was completed in 2019 and intended to be refinanced 
using Series V-2 Bond proceeds 
 Minor residential building renovations and additions  
New eligible projects are as follows: 
 Undergraduate, graduate, staff and faculty housing construction and renovations, which will meet 
green building standards 
 Safety and communications system upgrades 
 Infrastructure improvements which contribute to the transition to a net zero campus 
 Utility upgrades to support increased electrification of the campus 
All bond proceeds are expected to be spent on or before year 2024. 
Progress of Stanford University Capital Projects 
As of February 2023, in addition to the original refinancing of $124,115,000, approximately $189,800,000 of 
bond proceeds have been spent on eligible projects. The University expects to spend approximately 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  3 
$110,000,000 through the end of 2024 on remaining projects, of which approximately $61,100,000 will utilize 
proceeds from the Series V-2 Bonds. See Appendix D for more details. 
High-impact projects that have been completed or are near completion include: 
 Construction of Green Buildings: Several of the bond -financed projects comply with robust green 
building standards, including the Santa Clara County Green Building Ordinance and California’s 
CALGreen Tier 1 energy efficient building standards. Facilities with completed construction include 
the Center for Academic Medicine, Escondido Village Graduate Residences, and Middle Plaza Faculty 
and Staff housing. 
 Stanford Energy System Innovations (“SESI”): A portion of the Series V-2 Bond proceeds financed 
the Chiller Plant Expansion . This is a component of the SESI initiative to replace the natural gas 
cogeneration plant with a more effi cient Central Energy Facility that incorporates  energy sourced 
from heat recovery systems and a renewable energy portfolio . The project expands chilled water 
capacity with the addition of four new 3,000- ton chillers at the Central Energy Facility  and 
incorporates redundancy into the system. This project supports planned campus growth and aims 
to reduce the number of curtailment days during heat waves , thereby improving resilience. The 
Chiller Plant Expansion is expected to be completed in December 2023. 
Reporting Status 
The University has provided information on the impacts of the Nominated Projects and Assets through an 
annual update report on its Department of Sustainability and Energy Management  website sustainability-
year-in-review.stanford.edu/2021/. Stanford has also posted daily updates on the Chiller Plant’s water 
capacity and curtailment status on the University website. In addition, Stanford has posted regular Audited 
Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports on the Electronic Municipal Market Access system . In 2022, 
Stanford renewed a Platinum rating through the Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System 
(STARS), administered by the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education 
(AASHE). 
BASIS FOR QUALIFICATION AND CONCLUSIONS 
Based on the Reasonable Assurance procedures we have conducted, in our opinion, the Series V-2 Bonds 
continue to conform, in all material respects, with the post -issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds 
Standard, and bond-financed activities remain aligned with the Low Carbon Buildings Sector Criteria.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Melissa Sherwood, Senior Verifier  
Kestrel Verifiers 
Hood River, Oregon, United States  
February 28, 2023 
 
© 2023 Kestrel 360, Inc. 
ABOUT KESTREL VERIFIERS 
For 20 years Kestrel has been a trusted consultant in sustainable finance. 
Kestrel Verifiers, a division of Kestrel 360, Inc. is a Climate Bonds Initiative 
Approved Verifier qualified to verify transactions in all asset classes 
worldwide. Kestrel is a US-based certified Women’s Business Enterprise. 
For more information, visit www.kestrelverifiers.com  
 

Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  4 
DISCLAIMER 
This Post-Issuance Verification Report ( “Opinion”) aims to explain how and why the discussed financing 
meets the CBI Climate Bonds Standard based on the information that was provided by the Stanford or made 
publicly available by the Stanford and relied upon by Kestrel only during the time of this engagement 
(February 2023), and only for purposes of providing this Opinion.  
We have relied on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, and assumed the information 
to be accurate and complete. However, Kestrel Verifiers can make no warranty, express or implied, nor can 
we guarantee the accuracy, comprehensive nature, merchantability, or fitness for a particular purpose of 
the information we were provided or obtained. 
By providing this Opinion, Kestrel Verifiers is neither addressing nor certifying the credit risk, liquidity risk, 
market value risk or price volatility of the projects financed by the Climate Bonds. It was beyond Kestrel 
Verifiers’ scope of work to review for regulatory compliance, and no surveys or site visits were conducted 
by us. Furthermore, we are not responsible for surveillance, monitoring, or implementation of the project, 
or use of proceeds. 
The Opinion delivered by Kes trel Verifiers is for informational purposes only, is current as of the date of 
issuance, and does not address financial performance of the Climate Bonds or the effectiveness of allocation 
of its proceeds. This Opinion does not make any assessment of the c reditworthiness of the Stanford, nor 
its ability to pay principal and interest when due. This Opinion does not address the suitability of a Bond as 
an investment, and contains no offer, solicitation, endorsement of the Bonds nor any recommendation to 
buy, sell or hold the Bonds. Kestrel Verifiers accepts no liability for direct, indirect, special, punitive, 
consequential or any other damages (including lost profits), for any consequences when third parties use 
this Opinion either to make investment decisions or to undertake any other business transactions.  
This Opinion may not be altered without the written consent of Kestrel Verifiers. Kestrel Verifiers reserves 
the right to revoke or withdraw this Opinion at any time. Kestrel Verifiers certifies that there is no affiliation, 
involvement, financial or non- financial interest in the Stanford or the projects discussed. We are 
100% independent. Language in the offering disclosure supersedes any language included in this Opinion.  
 
 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  5 
Appendix A.  
ASSURANCE PROCEDURES  
 
 
REQUIREMENT ASSURANCE PROCEDURES 
5. Use of Proceeds 
5.1 Proceed Allocation Confirm allocation of the Net Proceeds of the bond to Nominated Projects. 
5.2 Eligibility Criteria Confirm alignment of Nominated Projects with Sector Criteria and overarching 
climate objective of the bond. 
5.3 Allocation Timeline Confirm allocation within 24 months of issuance or disclose timeline for 
allocation to Nominated Projects. 
5.4 Multiple Nominations for 
Certified Debt 
Instruments (5.4.1-
5.4.2) 
Review Nominated Projects for previous nominations to other Certified Climate 
Debt Instruments, green bonds, or other designated instruments, including  
whether certain portions are being financed by separately designated Certified 
Debt Instruments and/or whether Nominated Projects have been refinanced by 
other Certified Debt Instruments or bonds under assessment have refinanced 
existing Certified Debt Instruments. 
5.5 Refinancing If applicable, confirm appropriate tracking of Net Proceeds for refinancing  or 
refunding. 
5.6 Proceed Management Confirm procedures for appropriate tracking of allocation of proceeds and 
tracking unallocated funds. 
5.7 Valuation Review Net Proceeds of the bond to ensure they are not greater than the value 
of the Nominated Projects.  
5.8 Nominated Project 
Modifications (5.8.1) 
Confirm modifications or alterations to the Nominated Projects and determine 
requirement to engage a Verifier to perform a Pre-Issuance or Post-Issuance 
Verification as a result of the change. 
6. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
6.1 Decision-making Process 
for Determining Eligibility 
(6.1.1-6.1.5) 
Review continued documentation of decision -making process used to 
determine eligibility, including conformance with climate -related objectives, 
and review of alignment of the Nominated Projects with Sector Criteria. 
7. Management of Proceeds 
7.1 Proceeds Held in 
Subaccount 
Confirm the allocation of proceeds toa subaccount, sub-portfolio, or alternative 
accounting to appropriately track allocation of proceeds to Nominated Projects.  
7.2 Earmarking of Proceeds Review and confirm the earmarking process to track flow of funds and uses of 
proceeds. 
7.3 Temporary Investment 
Instruments (7.3.1-
7.3.3) 
Review management of unallocated proceeds, including temporary 
investments, and confirm non-contamination of proceeds.  
8. Reporting 
8.1 Reporting Approach 
(8.1.2-8.1.3) 
Confirm disclosure and execution of procedures to provide Update Reports 
and/or procedures to undertake periodic Assurance Engagements during term 
of the bond to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard. Confirm 
availability of the Update Reports for investors and reporting in case of material 
developments. 
 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  6 
Appendix B.  
RESPONSIBILITIES AND QUALITY CONTROL   
 
Verifier’s Responsibilities 
Kestrel Verifiers’ responsibilities for confirming alignment of the Series V -2 Bonds with the Climate Bonds 
Post-Issuance Verification Requirements include:  
 Assess and certify the University’s internal processes and controls, including selection process f or 
projects and assets, internal tracking of proceeds, and the allocation system for funds; 
 Assess policies and procedures established by the University for reporting;  
 Assess the readiness of the University to meet and continue to meet the Climate Bonds S tandard 
(Version 3.0) and Low Carbon Buildings Sector Criteria; and 
 Express a Reasonable Assurance conclusion. 
Issuer’s Responsibilities 
Issuer was responsible for providing detailed information and documents relating to: 
 The details of the Nominated Projects and Assets and the project selection process; 
 Maintaining adequate records and internal controls designed to support the Climate Bond Post -
Issuance Certification process; and 
 The collection, preparation, and presentation of the subject matter in accordance with the Climate 
Bonds Standard and Criteria. 
Independence and Quality Control 
Kestrel Verifiers provides green, social and sustainability bonds advisory services for corporate and public 
finance issuers. The Kestrel Verification Team is committed to providing robust, transparent, and accurate 
verifications. For over 20  years Kestrel has been a trusted advisor to state and local governments, 
nonprofits, and corporations. Kestrel certifies that there is no affiliation, involvement, financial or non -
financial interest in the issuer or the projects discussed. Accredited as an Approved Verifier by the Climate 
Bonds Initiative, Kestrel is qualified to evaluate bonds against the Climate Bonds Initiative Standards and 
Criteria.  
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  7 
Appendix C.  
ORIGINAL NOMINATED PROJECTS  
 
Middle Plaza: Located along El Camino Real in Menlo Park, Middle Plaza is a mixed-use development which 
will provide 215 units for faculty and staff housing. The location has nearby transit options and was designed 
with bicycle and pedestrian pathways. The development is expected to meet LEED Gold equivalency. The 
project is expected to be completed in summer 2022.  
Center for Academic Medicine: This newly constructed building will be part of the Stanford School of Medicine 
and will house clinical faculty, computational researchers, departmental leadership, and consolidate several 
administrative offices.   
Bonair Replacement Building : This building will house Land, Buildings & Real Estate (LBRE) operations 
including offices, shops, warehouse storage, a loading dock, and a small classroom. The building will 
incorporate technologies for maximizing energy efficiency such as automation of lighting and HVAC controls. 
By consolidating the needs of multiple teams, the building will reduce overall square footage needs. The 
building also supports a motor pool plan that reduces the number of overall vehicles, increases the number 
of electric vehicles, and expands the electric scooter and bike pool. Construction is expected to be completed 
in 2023.  
Escondido Village Graduate Residen ces: The four residence buildings at Escondido have rooms for 2,400 
graduate students with space totaling 1.8 million square feet. The energy use intensity is expected to be 
less than similar residence halls with air conditioning, partially due to targeted strategies that reduce lighting 
and equipment plug loads from residents.   
Neuro/ChEM-H: Completed in 2019, the new research complex co-located Stanford Neurosciences Institute 
and Stanford ChEM-H and host more than 40 laboratories, core research facilities, and collaborative spaces. 
Energy management features include background ventilation setback, recycled air in lab ventilation, 
improved roof and wall insulation, high performance window glazing and shades, and a 4 -pipe distributed 
heating and cooling system.  
BioMedical Innovations Building 1: Completed in 2019, the BioMedical Innovations Building 1 is the first in 
a series of buildings constructed to replace outdated laboratory and research facilities. Energy management 
features on this building include an innovative HVAC system that reduces peak energy consumption by over 
50%, exhaust air heat recovery, efficient lighting, and high performance window glazing and shades.  
Maintenance and Capital Improvements:  Projects include chilled water line expansion , Americans with 
Disabilities Act (ADA) accessibility upgrades, seismic upgrades, electrical conduit improvements, alarm 
upgrades, and other improvements.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  8 
Appendix D.  
BUDGET & DETAILS OF UPDATED PROJECT LIST  
 
 
No. Project Name 
Original/ 
Removed/ 
New Project Project Description 
Project 
Budget 
($ M) 
Bond 
Proceeds 
Spent as of 
Feb 2023 
($ M) 
Anticipated 
Spending 
Through 
2023 
($ M) 
1 Middle Plaza at 500 El 
Camino (Residential) 
Original  See Appendix C $52.8 $52.8 - 
2 Central Energy Facility 
Plant Expansion 
Original  See Appendix C $57.8 $47.8 $10.0 
3 Center for Academic 
Medicine (CAM1) 
Original  See Appendix C $37.7 $37.7 - 
4 Biomedical Innovation 
Building 1 
Original  See Appendix C $2.3 $2.3 - 
5 Escondido Village 
Graduate Residences & 
Parking Garage 
Original  See Appendix C $20.3 $20.3 - 
6 Bonair Replacement 
Building 
Original  See Appendix C $49.4 $17.5 $31.9 
7 Anne T. and Robert M. 
Bass Research Building 
(formerly New Biology 
Research Building) 
Original  See Appendix C $0.3 $0.3 - 
8 Governor’s Corner 
EPC/Suites/Cottages 
Renovation 
Removed  N/A - - - 
9 Stanford ChEM-H and 
Stanford Neuro Sciences 
Building (aka ChEM-H) 
Removed N/A - - - 
10 Lagunita Dining – 
Kitchen & Servery 
Removed N/A - - - 
11 1215 Welch Road  New New building construction, 
building renovations, and 
related utilities work.   
$0.6 $0.6 - 
12 Various graduate, 
undergraduate, faculty 
and staff housing 
projects 
New Housing projects include: 
- EV Blackwelder & Quillen 
Renovations (graduate) 
- Lasuen and row house 
upgrades (undergraduate) 
- Jerry House Renovations 
(undergraduate) 
- Escondido Village 
(graduate) 
$48.4 $10.5 $37.9 
Kestrel Verifiers | Climate Bonds Post-Issuance Report  9 
 
No. Project Name 
Original/ 
Removed/ 
New Project Project Description 
Project 
Budget 
($ M) 
Bond 
Proceeds 
Spent as of 
Feb 2023 
($ M) 
Anticipated 
Spending 
Through 
2023 
($ M) 
13 Miscellaneous 
infrastructure, utility, 
safety and 
communications projects 
New  Projects include: 
- East Campus Networking  
- Reservoir 1 Pump Station 
& Piping Ph 2  
- Escondido Village Lowrises 
Sewer Line Replacement  
- Storm Drainage System 
Renewal  
- Felt Lake Water 
Replacement  
- Upper Mayfield Sewer 
Replacement  
- JSW Chilled Water 
Replacement 
$14.1 - $14.1 
14 Emergency Operations 
Center and Electronic 
Communications Hub 
Building 
New Renovations to essential 
services facility located at 
Bonair Corporation Yard. 
$16.1 - $16.1 
TOTALS $299.8 $189.8 $110.0