© Sustainalytics 2025 
 
 
 
Second-Party Opinion 
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 
2025-DATA CMBS 
 
Evaluation Summary 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-
DATA CMBS is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of 
the Green Bond Principles 2021. This assessment is based on the following: 
 
USE OF PROCEEDS  The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds  – 
Energy and Resource Efficiency – is aligned with those recognized by 
the Green Bond Principles. Sustainalytics considers that investments 
in the eligible category will lead to positive environmental impacts and 
advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, specifically SDG 7. 
  Switch has selected three 
assets in accordance with the eligibility criteria under the Framework 
and evaluated the characteristics of the Mortgaged Properties against 
available benchmarks and industry best practices applicable to the 
design, construction and completion of data centres. Switch has 
mandated subject matter experts to evaluate the environmental and 
social risks associated with the Project and implement ed related 
mitigation measures as needed. Sustainalytics considers the project 
selection process in line with market practice. 
 MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS  The proceeds from the issuance 
will be exclusively used to purchase the mortgage loan to refinance 
the Mortgaged Properties. Proceeds will be immediately allocated 
after the issuance with no flexibility to reallocate. This is in line with 
market practice. 
 REPORTING The depositor commits to providing investors with a 
description of the Mortgaged Propert ies and the details of their 
sustainability features, including the PUE ratio, as part of the initial 
offering document. Given the intent to immediately allocate the 
proceeds to purchase the mortgage loans and refinance the eligible 
assets, Sustainalytics views Switch’s allocation and impact 
reporting to be aligned with market practice. 
 
 
 
Evaluation date February 4, 2025 
Issuer Location Las Vegas, USA 
 
Report Sections 
 
 
Introduction ............................................. 2 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion ........................... 3 
 
For inquir ies, contact the Sustainable 
Corporate Solutions project team: 
Aishwarya Ramchandran (Toronto) 
Project Manager 
aishwarya.ramchandran@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 416 861 0403  
Carlos Vinueza (Toronto) 
Project Support 
Taylor Ball (Toronto) 
Project Support 
Anna Leckman (Toronto) 
Client Relations 
susfinance.americas@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 646 518 9623     
 
  

Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
2 
Introduction 
Switch (or the “Company”)  is a technology infrastructure ecosystem company focusing on the design, 
construction and operation of data centres. Founded in 2000, Switch owns and operates five main data centre 
campuses, totaling more than 5, 300 acres in the US. The Company is headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada 
and employed approximately 1,000 people as of December 2024.  
Switch has developed the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS dated February 2025 (the 
“Framework”) for the issuance of green bonds (the “SWCH 2025-DATA, Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through 
Certificates” or the “bonds”)1 issued by SWCH Commercial Mortgage Trust 2025-DATA. The proceeds of the 
bonds will be used by NV LAS NAP 7, LLC ; NV RNO 2, LLC; and NV LAS NAP 9, LLC  (the “Borrower”), each a 
special purpose vehicle owned by Switch, to exclusively finance the purchase of a mortgage loan (the “Whole 
Loan”), which will be originated by Citi Real Estate Funding Inc ., Barclays Capital Real Estate Inc., Goldman 
Sachs Bank USA, Royal Bank of Canada and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association . The Whole Loan will be 
used to refinance the green project, consisting of a portfolio of three data centre properties located in Las 
Vegas and Reno, Nevada (the “Mortgaged Properties”, “Properties” or the “Project”).2 The Framework defines 
eligibility criteria in one area: 
1. Energy and Resource Efficiency  
Switch engaged Sustainalytics to review the  Framework and provide a Second-Party Opinion on the 
Framework’s environmental credentials and its alignment  with the Green Bond Principles 20 21 (GBP).3 The 
Framework will be shared directly with investors upon request.  
Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics’ Second-Party Opinion 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent4 opinion on the alignment of the 
reviewed Framework with current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are 
credible and impactful. 
As part of the Second-Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: 
• The Framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021, as administered by ICMA; 
• The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds; and 
• The alignment of the issuer ’s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk 
management in relation to the use of proceeds. 
For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.18, which is 
informed by market practice and Sustainalytics’ expertise as an ESG research provider. 
As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Switch’s management 
team to understand the sustainability impact of its business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well 
as the management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. Switch representatives have 
confirmed that: (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Switch to ensure that the information 
provided is complete, accurate and up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics wit h all relevant 
information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. 
Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non-public information. 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that 
Framework. 
 
1 Switch has confirmed to Sustainalytics that this is a secured green collateral bond as per the voluntary process guidelines published in the June 2022 
Appendix 1 of the GBP 2021. Switch has additionally committed to ensuring that: i) the collateral underlying the securitization of the bond is aligned with 
the criteria in the Framework; and ii) there will be no double-counting of the Mortgaged Properties and any other outstanding green financing. 
2 The Mortgaged Properties are: i) LAS.07 built in 2008, with up to 100 MW of critical power capacity, 662,847 square feet and LTM PUE below 1.45; 
ii)LAS.09 built in 2015, with up to 50 MW of critical power capacity, 491,136 square feet and LTM PUE below 1.45; and iii) RNO.02 built in 2022, with up 
to75 MW of critical power capacity, 522,165 square feet and an LTM PUE below 1.45. 
3 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green-
social-and-sustainability-bonds/green-bond-principles-gbp/. 
4 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst 
independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management 
framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial and research 
(and engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific 
commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
3 
Any update of the present Second -Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement 
conditions between Sustainalytics and Switch. 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market 
standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market 
standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 
projects expected to be financed with bond and loan proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The 
measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framewo rk is the 
responsibility of the Framework owner. 
In addition, the Second-Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee 
the realised allocation of the bond and loan proceeds towards eligible activities. 
No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second -Party Opinion shall be considered as 
being a statement, representation, warrant or argument, either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that Switch has made 
available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second-Party Opinion. 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 
2025-DATA CMBS 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS is credible, 
impactful and align ed with the four core components  of the GBP. Sustainalytics highlights the following 
elements of the Framework: 
• Use of Proceeds:  
- The eligible category , Energy and Resource Efficiency, is aligned with those recognized by the 
GBP.  
- The proceeds will be used exclusively to finance the purchase of the Whole Loan, to refinance 
the Mortgaged Properties located in Las Vegas and Reno, Nevada. 
▪ The Mortgaged Properties consist of  data centres with a last twelve months power 
usage effectiveness (LTM PUE) of 1.45 or lower. Sustainalytics considers the eligibility 
criterion of a defined PUE threshold to be in line with market practice. Sustainalytics 
further highlights that Switch has committed to: i) procure renewable energy (or 
primarily power the data centre s with renewables); or ii) use free cooling technology 
that takes advantage of cool ambient conditions and reduces the need for mechanical 
cooling and associated power. Sustainalytics believes that data centres with 
annualized PUE s below 1.5 that utilize renewable energy or free cooling technology 
generate significantly lower scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
• Project Evaluation and Selection:  
- The Borrower has selected the Mortgaged Properties in accordance with the  Framework’s 
eligibility criteria, and evaluated their characteristics against available benchmarks and industry 
best practices applicable to the design, construction and completion of data centres, including: 
i) European Commission Joint Research Institute’s Best Practice Guidelines for the EU Code of 
Conduct on Data Centre Energy Efficiency;5 ii) the International Energy Agency’s Tracking Report 
on Data Centres and Data Transmission Networks; 6 iii) the National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory’s Subcontract Report on Data Center IT Efficiency Measures;7 iv) the Climate Neutral 
Data Centre Pact;8 and v) the Uptime Institute’s Global Data Centre Survey.9 
 
5 European Commission, “2024 Best Practice Guidelines for the EU Code of Conduct on Data Centre Energy Efficiency”, at: 
https://e3p.jrc.ec.europa.eu/sites/default/files/documents/publications/jrc136986_2024_best_practice_guidelines.pdf  
6 International Energy Agency, “Data Centres and Data Transmission Networks”, at: https://www.iea.org/energy-system/buildings/data-centres-and-
data-transmission-networks  
7 National Renewable Energy Laboratory, “Chapter 20: Data Center IT Efficiency Measures Evaluation Protocol”, (2017), at: 
https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy17osti/68576.pdf  
8 Climate Neutral Data Center, “Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact”, at: https://www.climateneutraldatacentre.net/#  
9 Uptime Institute, “Research and Reports”, at: https://uptimeinstitute.com/resources/research-and-reports   
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
4 
- Switch has mandated subject matter experts to evaluate the environmental and social risks 
associated with the Mortgaged Properties and implemented appropriate mitigation measures 
as needed. The Borrower will provide an appraisal and property condition report to lenders prior 
to the Whole Loan’s closing date. Sustainalytics considers these environmental and social risk 
management systems to be adequate. Please refer to Section 2 for more details on these 
processes. 
- Based on the established process for project evaluation and selection, and the presence of risk 
management processes, Sustainalytics considers th e processes to be in line with market 
practice. 
• Management of Proceeds: 
- Proceeds from the issuance will be immediately allocated to the financing of the Whole Loan 
that will in turn be used to refinance the Mortgaged Properties. The SWCH 2025-DATA Trust will 
not retain the flexibility to re -allocate the use of proceeds or have any temporary use of 
proceeds. 
- Based on the commitment to full allocation at issuance, Sustainalytics considers this process  
to be in line with market practice. 
• Reporting: 
- The depositor has provided investors with a description of the Mortgaged Propert ies and the 
sustainability features, including the LTM PUE ratio of less than 1.45, to its investors through the 
initial offering document. 
- Considering that all of the proceeds will be immediately used to purchase the Whole Loan and 
refinance the Mortgaged Properties , Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with 
market practice. 
Alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021  
Sustainalytics has determined that the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS aligns with the 
four core components of the GBP. 
Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of Switch 
Contribution to Switch’s sustainability strategy 
Switch’s sustainability strategy focuses on the following environmental areas: i) renewable energy; ii) energy 
efficiency; iii) emissions reduction ; iv) water conservation  and water recycling;  and v) waste disposal and 
recycling.10 
To address energy efficiency, Switch has established design targets for its data centres, achieving a PUE of 
1.4 or below for new builds and 1.45 or below for retrofitted facilities.  To meet these targets, Switch has 
implemented renewable energy procurement strategies, including sourcing 100% of its electricity from 
renewable sources and using verified carbon offsets for residual emissions. Switch has further 
communicated that its facilities have earned Energy Star certification and has all of them have exceeded the 
programme's minimum requirements by up to 30 %. The Company achieved and continues to maintain its 
2024 target of net zero scope 1 and 2 emissions; having achieved net zero scope 2 emissions since 2016 and 
scope 1 emissions since 2021 through the purchase of carbon offsets  and 100% renewably powered 
operations.11 To further support the Company’s on-going net zero efforts, Switch monitors its GHG emissions 
through its GHG Reduction Program, which adheres to the GHG Protocol. Switch has maintained its net zero 
targets even as the Company’s operations have expanded.12 
Switch has implemented a goal to replenish twice the amount of water it uses operationally over the next 
decade. In 2024, Switch achieved its target of reaching a water usage effectiveness (WUE) ratio of less than 
1.4.13 To achieve this, Switch employs proprietary water processing technology that enables water reuse and 
eliminates chemicals from its cooling systems. The Company has also implemented  water improvement 
projects in the communities where it operates, such as the development of a 4,000 -acre-foot (5,000 m 3) 
treated effluent water pipeline. This project will enable its Citadel Campus in Northern Nevada to run entirely 
on 100% recycled water, significantly reducing its reliance on freshwater resources. In new builds , the 
 
10 Switch, “ESG 2023 Report”, (2024), at: https://switchdotcom.s3-sites.data.switch.com/media/reports/esg/Switch-ESG-Report-2023.pdf#page=18 
11 Ibid. 
12 Ibid. 
13 Ibid. 
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
5 
Company supports its water -positive strategy by using rec ycled water and reducing overall water 
consumption. Between 2019 and 2022, Switch surpassed its WUE target ahead of schedule, achieving a WUE 
of 1.35. During this time, the Company saved more than 155 million gallons of water through its conservation 
technologies.14 
In terms of waste management, Switch has set a long-term goal of achieving net-zero waste by 2050. Switch 
has implemented recycling and waste reduction program mes, including a paper shredding and recycling 
initiative aimed at minimizing landfill contributions and reducing resource use . Since 2019 , the programme 
has preserved more than 3,700 trees as well as  saved an estimated 1 .9 million gallons of water , and more 
than 100,000 gallons of oil.15 
Based on the above context, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-
DATA CMBS is aligned with Switch’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives, and will further the 
Company’s action on its key environmental priorities 
Approach to managing environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
Sustainalytics recognizes that the proceeds from instruments issued under the Framework will be directed 
towards eligible projects expected to have positive environmental impacts. However, Sustainalytics is aware 
that such eligible projects could also lead to negative environmental and social outcomes. Some key 
environmental and social risks associated with the eligible projects may include issues related to : i) 
biodiversity loss associated with large -scale infrastructure development ; ii) emissions, effluents, and waste 
generated during construction  and operation of data centres ; iii) community relations ; and iv) occupational 
health and safety (OHS) hazards during the construction of data cent res; v) supply chain environmental 
impact; and vi) cybersecurity issues and compliance and privacy risks. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Switch is able to  manage or mitigate potential risks through the 
implementation of the following: 
• To manage all environmental risks, Switch’s Environment Policy Statement  provides a 
framework for its sustainability practices , defining the Company’s commitment s on 
environmental issues, integrating sustainability principles into all operational facets, optimizing 
energy efficiency, minimiz ing emissions, and promot ing waste reduction. The statement also 
includes commitments to ongoing review of its practices and alignment with evolving 
environmental standards. 16 Additionally, Switch’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
emphasizes compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations as part of its 
broader framework for responsible business practices. The code sets expectations for 
employees, officers, and directors to follow the law and maintain accountability in their actions. 
It also highlights the importance of transparency in operations, aligning environmental practices 
with ethical standards.17 
• To manage risks related to  biodiversity loss and emissions, effluents and waste , Switch ’s 
activities, data centres and Energy and Environmental Management Systems, including its core 
campus, are certified under ISO 14001:2015 on Environmental Management Systems .18 This 
standard provides a framework for identifying and mitigating impacts on local ecosystems and 
biodiversity during project development. 19 ISO 14001:2015 further establishes guidelines on 
establishing objectives and monitoring progress to reduce effluents and emissions to air, water 
and land.20 Switch is also required to have waste management practices for hazardous and non-
hazardous waste that meet federal, state and local regulations and R2 (Responsible Recycling) 
and e-Stewards guidelines. Additionally, Switch assists its clients in managing their energy use 
by providing tools such as the Living Data Center portal, which offers real -time and historical 
energy use data to optimize equipment and minimize consumption, encouraging transparency 
and reporting.21 
 
14 Switch, “ESG 2023 Report”, (2024), at: https://switchdotcom.s3-sites.data.switch.com/media/reports/esg/Switch-ESG-Report-2023.pdf#page=18. 
15 Ibid. 
16 Ibid. 
17 Switch, “Code of Business and Ethics”, (2023), at: https://switchdotcom.s3-sites.data.switch.com/media/reports/esg/2023-Code-of-Business-
Conduct-and-Ethics.pdf  
18 Switch, “Data Center Compliance”, at: https://www.switch.com/compliance/  
19 ISO, “Achieving environmental focus with ISO 14001:2015”, at: https://www.iso.org/2015/11/Ref2013.html 
20 Ibid. 
21 Switch, “ESG 2023 Report”, (2024), at: https://switchdotcom.s3-sites.data.switch.com/media/reports/esg/Switch-ESG-Report-2023.pdf#page=18 
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
6 
• To manage risks related to community relations, Switch has communicated to Sustainalytics 
that throughout the development process, it engages with local communities through planned 
communication, establishing feedback loops to understand and address stakeholder needs. The 
Development team identifies stakeholders who are impacted by or may have influence on the 
data centres through community and stakeholder mapping. Sustainalytics further notes that 
projects financed under the Framework are based in the US, which is recognized under the 
Equator Principles as a Designated Country.22 
• To address occupational health and safety (OHS) hazards during the construction and operation 
of data centres, Switch monitors and evaluates its OHS performance, including tracking work -
related injuries, diseases and fatalities  as outlined in its Workforce Rights Statement . The 
Company has structured oversight mechanisms, rigorous risk assessments, and 
comprehensive employee training programmes as part of its Operations and Safety framework. 
The Company conducts detailed risk evaluations for standard operat ing procedures to identify 
potential safety and operational hazards and incorporates findings into actionable measures. 
Switch also maintains emergency response plans, which are regularly tested through controlled 
drills, and follows up on incidents with r oot cause analyses (RCAs) and after -action reports 
(AARs) to prevent future occurrences.23 
• To manage supply chain environmental impact s, Switch’s Environmental Procurement Policy 
mandates compliance with stringent environmental performance standards for its key 
suppliers. Supplier performance is monitored by a licensed third -party inspection and 
compliance agency, that controls for  alignment with regulatory requirements and contractual 
obligations. Remedial actions are enforced where necessary to maintain compliance with  
environmental standards.24 
• To manage cybersecurity and privacy risks, Switch has a Cybersecurity Program certified under 
ISO 27001:2022 on Information security, cybersecurity and privacy protection, which establishes 
a structured framework for managing information security. 25 The program me incorporates 
annual risk assessments, vulnerability testing, and comprehensive employee training to address 
potential threats. Governance and oversight are provided by the Chief Legal Officer and EVP of 
Network Operations. Switch also maintains a range of certifications  on data security, privacy 
and system integrity , including HITRUST, NIST SP 800 -53, and PCI DSS. 26 Additionally, Switch 
enforces an Acceptable Use Policy that outlines clear guidelines for secure network and system 
use.27,28 
Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Switch  has 
implemented adequate measures and is well positioned to manage or mitigate environmental and social risks 
commonly associated with the eligible categories. 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
The use of proceeds category is aligned with those recognized by the GBP. Sustainalytics has focused below 
on where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. 
Importance of energy efficiency in data centres in the US 
Data centres play a key role in digitalization, supporting the more than 20 -fold expansion of internet traffic 
since 2010. 29 These facilities contain many energy -intensive technologies, with an average data centre’s 
energy demand being 40% attributable to server computing, 40% to cooling systems and 20% to other systems 
 
22 Equator Principles, “About the Equator Principles”, at: https://equator-principles.com/about-the-equator-principles/  
23 Ibid. 
24 Switch, “ESG 2023 Report”, (2024), at: https://switchdotcom.s3-sites.data.switch.com/media/reports/esg/Switch-ESG-Report-2023.pdf#page=18 
25 ISO, “ISO/IEC 27001:2022”, (2022), at: https://www.iso.org/standard/27001 
26 Switch, “Data Center Compliance”, at: https://www.switch.com/compliance/ 
27 Switch, “ESG 2023 Report”, (2024), at: https://switchdotcom.s3-sites.data.switch.com/media/reports/esg/Switch-ESG-Report-2023.pdf#page=18 
28 Switch, “Acceptable Use Policy”, (2024), at: https://www.switch.com/aup/ 
29 International Energy Agency, “Data Centres and Data Transmission Networks”, at: https://www.iea.org/energy-system/buildings/data-centres-and-
data-transmission-networks   
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
7 
such as power supply, storage devices and communication equipment.30 Globally, data centres accounted for 
up to 1.3% of all electricity demand in 2022, consuming 240-340 TWh.31 
Despite the scale of the growth in demand, emissions from data centres have grown only modestly since 2010 
owing to efficiency improvements, renewable energy use and broader decarbonization of electricity grids. 32 
However, in order to stay on track with a net zero scenario, data centre emissions must still drop by half by 
2030.33 These efficiency efforts are reflected in the decrease in global average PUE from 2.50 in 2007 to 1.55 
in 2022,34 with efficiency plateauing at this mid-to-high 1.5 range since 2020.35  
Of the more than 8,000 data centres globally contributing to the above trends, more than 30% are located in 
the US.36 Data centres are expected to account for 6% of all electricity demand in the US by 2026, growing 
from 4% in 2022.37 In this scenario, the rapid expansion of artificial intelligence (AI) has raised concerns about 
electricity demand and grid capacity,38 with a projected additional 93 TWh by 2030 attributable to AI.39  
Various entities in the US are making efforts to encourage data centre energy efficiency gains. The US 
Environmental Protection Agency has expanded its Energy Star programme to include a labelling scheme and 
product list for data centre equipment as well as a certification for entire data centres.40,41 In addition, the US 
Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy initiated a USD 40 million programme in 
2023 in partnership with various research institutions to advance data centre cooling technologies, with the 
goal of reducing data centre operational carbon footprints.42 The Centre of Expertise for Energy Efficiency in 
Data Centres also provides technical support, tools, analysis and best practices to further the implementation 
of energy efficiency projects in data centres.43,44 
In view of the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Switch’s investments aimed at improving the energy 
efficiency and PUE of data centres in the US are aligned with broader industry and regional goals and can be 
expected to generate positive environmental impacts.  
Contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals were adopted in September 2015 by the United Nations General 
Assembly and form part of an agenda for achieving sustainable development by 2030. The instruments issued 
under the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS are expected to help advance the following 
SDG and target:  
Use of Proceeds 
Category 
SDG SDG target 
Energy and Resource 
Efficiency 
7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of 
improvement in energy efficiency 
 
 
30 International Energy Agency, “Electricity 2024 Analyst and Forecast to 2026”, (2024), at: https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/18f3ed24-4b26-
4c83-a3d2-8a1be51c8cc8/Electricity2024-Analysisandforecastto2026.pdf  
31 International Energy Agency, “Data Centres and Data Transmission Networks”, at: https://www.iea.org/energy-system/buildings/data-centres-and-
data-transmission-networks     
32 Ibid.   
33 Ibid. 
34 Uptime Institute, “Large data centers are mostly more efficient, analysis confirms”, (2024), at: 
https://uptimeinstitute.com/resources/assets?filter%5Blanguage_id%5D=0&filter%5Bcategory_id%5D=3&filter%5Bpublished_on%5D=0&task=search&filt
er_order=a.title&filter_order_Dir=desc  
35 Uptime Institute, “Uptime Institute Global Data Center Survey 2023”, (2024), at: https://journal.uptimeinstitute.com/large-data-centers-are-mostly-
more-efficient-analysis-confirms/  
36 International Energy Agency, “Electricity 2024 Analyst and Forecast to 2026”, (2024), at: https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/18f3ed24-4b26-
4c83-a3d2-8a1be51c8cc8/Electricity2024-Analysisandforecastto2026.pdf 
37 Ibid. 
38 Forbes, “AI Is Pushing The World Toward An Energy Crisis”, (2024), at: https://www.forbes.com/sites/arielcohen/2024/05/23/ai-is-pushing-the-world-
towards-an-energy-crisis/  
39 Goldman Sachs, “AI is Poised to Drive 160% Increase in Data Center Power Demand”, (2024), at: https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/articles/AI-
poised-to-drive-160-increase-in-power-demand  
40 US Environmental Protection Agency, “Data Center Equipment”, at: https://www.energystar.gov/products/data_center_equipment  
41 US Environmental Protection Agency, “ENERGY STAR Score for Data Center Estimates 
(U.S. and Canada)” (2023), at: https://www.energystar.gov/buildings/tools-and-resources/energy-star-score-data-center-estimates-us-and-canada  
42 National Renewable Energy Laboratory, “NREL Joins $40 Million Effort To Advance Data Center Cooling Efficiency”, (2023), at: 
https://www.nrel.gov/news/program/2023/nrel-joins-effort-to-advance-data-center-cooling-efficiency.html  
43 US Department of Energy, “Energy Efficiency in Data Centers”, at: https://www.energy.gov/eere/femp/energy-efficiency-data-centers  
44 US Department of Energy, Center of Expertise for Energy Efficiency in Data Centers, “Who We Are”, at: https://datacenters.lbl.gov/who-we-are  
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
8 
Conclusion  
Switch has developed the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS under which green bonds 
are issued by SWCH Commercial Mortgage Trust 2025-DATA. The proceeds of the bonds are used to finance 
the purchase of a mortgage loan, which will refinance the green project, consisting of a portfolio of three data 
centre properties located in Las Vegas and Reno, Nevada. Sustainalytics considers that the eligible project is 
expected to provide positive environmental impacts.  
The Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS outlines a process for tracking, allocation and 
management of proceeds, and makes commitments for reporting on allocation and impact. Sustainalytics 
considers that the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025 -DATA CMBS is aligned with the overall 
sustainability strategy of Switch and that the use of proceeds  will contribute to the advancement of UN 
Sustainable Development Goal  7. Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Switch has adequate 
measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the 
eligible projects.  
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Switch is well positioned to issue green bonds and that 
the Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS is robust, transparent and in alignment with the 
four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2021. 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
9 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2025 Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected herein (the “Information”) are 
proprietary to Sustainalytics and/or its third-party content providers and may be made available to third parties 
only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalytics. The Information is not directed  to, nor intended for 
distribution to or use by India-based clients and/or users, and the distribution of Information to India resident 
individuals and entities is not permitted. 
The Information is provided for informational purposes only and (1) does not constitute an endorsement of 
any product, project, investment strategy or consideration of any particular environmental, social or 
governance related issues as part of any investm ent strategy; (2) does not constitute investment advice nor 
recommends any particular investment, nor represents an expert opinion or negative assurance letter; (3) is 
not part of any offering and does not constitute an offer or indication to buy or sell s ecurities, to select a 
project nor enter into any kind of business transaction; (4) is not an assessment of the  economic 
performance, financial obligations nor creditworthiness of any entity; (5) is not a substitute for professional 
advice; (6) has not be en submitted to, nor received approval from, any relevant regulatory or governmental 
authority. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. 
The Information is based on information made available by third parties, is subject to continuous change and 
no warranty is made as to its completeness, accuracy, currency, nor the fitness of the Information for a 
particular purpose. The Information is pro vided “as is” and reflects Sustainalytics’ opinion solely at the date 
of its publication. 
Neither Sustainalytics nor its third -party content providers accept any liability in connection with the use of 
the Information or for actions of third parties with respect to the Information, in any manner whatsoever, to 
the extent permitted by applicable law. 
Any reference to third party content providers’ names is solely to acknowledge their ownership of information, 
methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected within the Information and does not constitute a 
sponsorship or endorsement of the Inform ation by such third -party content provider. For more information 
regarding third-party content providers visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers  
Sustainalytics may receive compensation for its ratings, opinions and other services, from, among others, 
issuers, insurers, guarantors and/or underwriters of debt securities, or investors, via different business units. 
Sustainalytics maintains measures de signed to safeguard the objectivity and independence of its opinions. 
For more information visit Governance Documents or contact compliance@sustainalytics.com.  
This deliverable, in particular the images, text and graphics contained therein, and the layout and company 
logo of Sustainalytics are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof shall require express 
prior written consent. Use shall be de emed to refer in particular to the copying or duplication of the opinion 
wholly or in part, the distribution of the opinion, either free of charge or against payment, or the exploitation 
of this opinion in any other conceivable manner. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring. 
  
Second-Party Opinion  
Green Finance Framework – SWCH 2025-DATA CMBS  
  
 
  
 
10 
About Morningstar Sustainalytics 
Morningstar Sustainalytics is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around 
the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. For more than 30 
years, the firm has been at the forefront of  developing high-quality, innovative solutions to meet the evolving 
needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers 
and pension funds, which incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their 
investment processes. Sustainalytics also works with hundreds of companies and their financial 
intermediaries to help them consider sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. For more 
information, visit www.sustainalytics.com.