Verification details 
TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT: ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT 
RENEWABLE ENERGIES AND LOW CARBON TRANSPORT FACILITIES CRITERIA OF THE CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD 
PERIOD ENGAGEMENT WAS CARRIED OUT: JULY 2023. 
APPROVED VERIFIER: PACIFIC CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY – PACIFIC CREDIT RATING GROUP 
PRE-ISSUANCE ENGAGEMENT LEADER: DIANA VIA, DVIA@PCSLATAM.COM. 
  
INDEPENDENT LIMITED 
ASSURANCE REPORT 
 
 
 UniLeasing, Inc. 
 Panama 
 July 2023 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Introduction…………………………………………………….3 
2. Assurance Scope………………………………………….……3 
3. Performed Procedures………………………………………....3 
4. Conclusion……………………………………………………...3 
5. Limitations of Assurance Engagement………………………….3 
6. Independence and Quality Control…………………………....4 
7. Issuers’ Responsibility…………………………………………..4 
8. Verifier’s Responsibility………………………………………..4 
9. Annex A: List of Nominated Projects & Assets………………....5 
10. Annex B: Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 Pre-Issuance….6 
 
  

 
3 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
1. Introduction 
This is an independent pre-issuance assurance report of the proposed US Dollar denominated bond aggregating 
up to US$ 10,000,000.00 (Green bond Framework) by UNILEASING, INC. located in Grand Bay Tower Building, 
PB, located on Avenida Balboa, Panama City with PO Box No. 0831-01144, (“Issuer”) in accordance with the 
pre-issuance requirements of “Limited Assurance” under Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
 
2.  Assurance Scope 
The objective of this assurance engagement is to obtain a Limited Assurance level of the internal procedures  
generated by  UniLeasing to comply with the requirements of The Green Bonds Principles published by  
International Capital Market Association, the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 and the Sector Criteria for 
Solar Sector 2.3 and Low Carbon-Land transport 2.2 published by Climate Bonds Initiative. The  following 
principles have been included in the assessment: 
 
1. Use of Proceeds. 
2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection. 
3. Management of Proceeds. 
4. Reporting. 
 
3.  Performed Procedures 
Procedures undertaken for this verification included interviews with key staff and reviews of internal and public 
documents have been carried on the following aspects: 
• PCS´s review included an examination of the relevant procedures, policies, and processes, as well as 
verification of the data provided by the issuer. 
• The issuer provided an overview of the project nominated and the relevant processes and documentation 
regarding the proceeds (e.g., use of proceeds, management of proceeds) to PCS. 
• The issuer filled in a questionnaire that covers all criteria of the Climate Bonds Standard V.3. 
• The issuer provided background documents that elaborate further on the information mentioned in the 
questionnaire. 
• Using the questionnaire and background documents, PCS carried out an assessment of the CBI criteria. 
In case any answers were unclear, PCS contacted the issuer for more details and clarification. 
 
4.  Conclusion 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted and evidence obtained, PCS states the following conclusion 
about UniLeasing in relation to finance (or re -finance) the nominated projects and assets falling under the 
categories: solar sector criteria and low carbon-land transport criteria. 
Nothing has come to PCS attention that causes us to believe that the UniLeasing, in terms of use of proceeds, 
process or evaluation and selection, internal processes and controls for the management of proceeds and 
reporting prior to issuance, does not meet the requirements of The Green Bond Principles, the Climate Bonds 
Standard Version 3, published by Climate Bonds Initiative. 
 
5. Limitations of Assurance Engagement 
This assurance engagement was limited to the Pre-Issuance of the UniLeasing; therefore, our procedures did not 
constitute an examination or evaluation of the following: 
• Data and information beyond the defined reporting boundary and period. 
• Credit rating and financial performance and of the prospective issuer. 
• Environmental, social, or governance impact of the proposed projects/investments, except to the extent 
required for compliance with Climate Bonds Initiative Version 3.0. 
 
4 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
6. Independence and Quality Control 
As an approved verifier by the C limate Bonds Initiative, PCS ensures that the results of the independent Pre -
Issuance Verification Report are of the highest quality and reflect an impartial review process of Climate Bonds 
Standards Version 3.0. 
PCS carried out Limited Assurance procedure s in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE 3000) established by the International Auditing and Assurance Board (IAASB) of the 
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).  
PCS nor any member of the verifier team is involved in any way in the issuance or management of Green Bond. 
PCS has applied internal procedures to confirm no conflicts of interest for this verification engagement. 
 
7. Issuers’ Responsibility 
UniLeasing was responsible for providing information and preparing the Green Bond Framework relating to: 
• The details concerning the selection process for the nominated projects. 
• The details of the nominated projects and methodology applied. 
• The management systems for internal processes and controls for nominated projects. 
• The details of commitments for reporting prior to issuance, including investment areas, management of 
unallocated proceeds and frequency of periodic Assurance Engagements. 
 
8. Verifier’s Responsibility 
The work undertaken by PCS as part of this Limited Assurance Engagement of Climate Securities Certification 
Pre-Issuance Requirements included the assessment of the following: 
• Conformance of UniLeasing Framework with the Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0. 
• Conformance with the Technical Criteria on the Sector Criteria for Renewables energies and Low Carbon 
transport projects. 
• Conformance with the Internal Processes & Controls requirements. 
• Conformance with Reporting Prior to Issuance requirements. 
 
 
 
 
Diana Via Aronez 
Head of Sustainability of Pacific Corporate Sustainability (PCS) 
Pacific Credit Rating Group 
 
 
 
  

 
5 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
Annex A: List of Nominated Projects & Assets 
UniLeasing, Inc. is a Panamanian corporation subsidiary of UniBank, S.A., which seeks to support business and 
personal growth, through the financing of productive assets. Its business is mainly focused on the management of 
industrial, agricultural, medical, automobile, solar panels and other equipment, through financial leasing. 
 
The issuance of series D of the UniLeasing Green Bond of up to US$ 10,000,000.00 is intended to refinance 
loans currently granted to customers, for the installation of photovoltaic  systems and electric transport. The 
operation includes projects carried out by UniLeasing during the last 24 months, considering a 24.3%  of funds 
allocation for refinancing operations and 67.7% for primary placement. 
 
 
Tabla 1: Nominated projects 
Category Subcategory Projects 
Expected 
Environmental 
impact 
Percent by 
Category Current balance 
Renewable 
Energy 
Renovation, 
photovoltaic 
installation, 
operation, and 
maintenance of 
energy-efficient 
equipment will be 
considered 
Installation of solar 
panels in Micro and 
small enterprises 
(MSEs) and 
residences. 
Installed 
renewable 
energy capacity 
80% 
US$ 10,000,000.00 
Low Carbon 
Transport 
Electric vehicles or 
sustainable 
mobility projects  
Financing of electric 
vehicles. 
GHG emissions 
avoided in 
tCO2e 
20% 
 
  
 
6 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
Annex B: Climate Bonds Standard Version 3.0 Pre-Issuance 
Certification Checklist 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
1 USE OF 
PROCEEDS 
1.1 
The issuer has prepared a Green Bond Framework, based 
on the Green Bond Principles of the International Capital 
Market Association (ICMA) and the principles of the Climate 
Bonds Standard in version 3.0. 
UniLeasing intends to use the proceeds of the bond to finance 
nominated projects and assets falling under the following 
category: Renewable energy and low carbon transport. 
PCS has verified the nominated category of Solar Energy  
and Low carbon -land transport to be aligned with the CBS 
Taxonomy. 
Meets 
1.2. 
UniLeasing confirmed that the foreseen net income of the 
issuance will not be greater than the total exposure of the 
issuer’s investment to the proposed projects and Nominated 
Assets. 
Meets 
1.3 Nominated Projects and Assets are not nominated for other 
Certified Climate Bonds, Certified Climate Loans, Certified 
Climate Debt Instruments, green bonds, green loans, or other 
labeled instruments (such as social bonds or SDG bonds). 
Meets 1.3.1 
1.3.2 
 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
02 
PROCESS 
FOR 
EVALUATIO
N AND 
SELECTION 
OF 
PROJECTS 
AND 
ASSETS 
2.1 
UniLeasing has a decision -making process that it will use to 
determine the eligibility of eligible projects and assets 
associated with this issuance based on environmental 
objectives and criteria, and compliant with relevant sector 
eligibility criteria of the Climate Bond Standards. 
Meets 
2.1.1 
UniLeasing exhibits a strong commitment to mitigate climate 
change and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). UniLeasing has decided to issue a series under the 
Green Bond label that will focus its financing within the 
Renewable Energy and Clean Transport sectors, with the aim 
of guiding and accompanying its clients towards awareness 
in the use of energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
Meets 
2.1.2 
The issuer has an Environmental Policy that includes a specific 
target of gradually reducing the intensity of greenhouse gas 
emissions and is committed to supporting borrowers in 
development and the implementation of environmentally and 
socially sustainable projects The climate related objectives of 
the bond conform to the issuer’s policy and strategy. 
Meets 
2.1.3 
The Issuer is pretended to refinance loans currently granted 
to customers, for the installation of photovoltaic systems and 
electric transport. 
Meets 
2.1.4 
Processes to determine whether the Nominate Projects and 
Assets meet the eligibility requirements specified in Part C of 
the CBI Standards v.3. are in place. 
Meets 
2.2 UniLeasing aspects of the decision -making process are 
described in 2.2.1, 2.2.2 and 2.2.3. Meets 
 
7 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
2.2.1 
UniLeasing has established related eligibility criteria and 
system, managed the nominated projects and assets that 
applied to identify and manage potentially material 
environmental, social or governance risks associated with the 
Nominated Projects and Assets 
Meets 
2.2.2 
UniLeasing offers asset financing solutions for products that 
have been fully verified for ecological and low -carbon 
performance throughout their entire life cycle , with 
certifications such as French Carbon Footprint and UL    
Environmental Product Declarations Program for solar 
receivables. 
Meets 
2.2.3 
UniLeasing has assessed that all proposed Nominated 
Projects & Assets meet the documented objectives as stated 
under Clause 2.1.1 and are likely to conform to the relevant 
eligibility requirements under Part C of the Climate Bonds 
Standard, as UniLeasing has put in place a diligent project 
evaluation and selection process. (See 2.2.1). 
Meets 
 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
3 
MANAGEME
NT OF 
PROCEEDS 
3.1 The net proceeds are appropriately tracked by UniLeasing 
and documented (see points 3.1.1., 3.1.2., and 3.1.3.). Meets 
3.1.1 
The net proceeds will be appropriately tracked by  
UniLeasing and documented. 
UniLeasing, through the Treasury area, will ensure that the 
resources of the Bond are used to finance eligible projects, 
the sustainability committee will manage the funds and the 
Accounting Department will issue the reports as a result of 
the distribution operations of the allocated funds. 
Meets 
3.1.2 
Unallocated Net Proceeds will be managed in compliance 
with the requirements in Clause 7.3. of CBI standards:  
The balance of unallocated Net Proceeds will be 
documented in the Register. Any balance of issuance 
proceeds not allocated to fund eligible loans will be held in 
accordance with UniLeasing´s liquidity management policy. 
Meets 
3.1.3 
UniLeasing will maintain a Register to manage and account 
for funding to the Nominated Projects & Assets and enable 
estimation of the share of  the Net Proceeds being used for 
financing. 
Meets 
 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
4 
REPORTING 
PRIOR TO 
ISSUANCE 
4.1 
UniLeasing Green Bond Framework will be found here: 
https://www.unibank.com.pa/es/banca-
corporativa/unileasing 
Meets 
4.1.1 
The issuer will base its management system on the ICMA 
(International Capital Market Association) Green Bond 
Principles and the Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0 
standards. 
Meets 
4.1.2 
PCS confirms that UniLeasing’s Green Bond Framework 
includes a summary of the expected use of proceeds’ 
contribution to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
Meets 
4.1.3 
PCS confirms that UniLeasing’s Green Bond Framework 
includes a descriptive decision -making process to ensure a 
diligent project evaluation and selection process as stated in 
2.1. 
Meets 
 
8 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
Item Section Clause Assurance procedures Compliance 
4.1.4 
PCS confirms that UniLeasing’s Green Bond Framework 
includes a description of the relevant Sector Eligibility 
Criteria, as well as relevant impact metrics, on which 
UniLeasing’s intends to report on. 
Meets 
4.1.5 
PCS confirms that UniLeasing’s Green Bond Framework 
clearly states the approach used to managed unallocated 
net proceeds. 
Meets 
4.1.6 
UniLeasing will prepare a report with the details of the total 
allocation of proceeds (including a breakdown by project 
category and revenue allocation). The company will annually 
publish a set of sustainability indicators to inform about the 
project’s contributions to environmental development. The 
indicators are described in the Green Bond Framework. 
The issuer will engage a qualified independent third party 
to conduct post  issuance assurance to providing Update 
Reports to reaffirm conformance with the Climate Bonds 
Standard while the Bond remains outstanding 
Meets 
4.1.7 There are no limits specified on the amount of information 
that can be submitted for the nominated project. Meets 
4.1.8 
According to the informative prospectus, the net proceeds 
will used to refinance loans currently granted to customers, 
for the installation of photovoltaic systems and electric 
transport. The estimate of the share of the Net Proceeds used 
for financing, is disclosed in the Green Bond Framework. 
Meets 
4.2 UniLeasing Disclosure Documentation meets the  criteria 
defined by the CBI Standards Version 3. Meets 
4.2.1 The investment areas, as provided in Clause 9.1, into which 
the Nominated Projects fall are disclosed in Table 1 
Meets 
4.2.2 
Any balance of issuance proceeds not allocated to  fund 
eligible loans will  be held in accordance with UniLeasing’s 
liquidity management policy. 
Meets 
4.2.3 
UniLeasing’s Green Bond Framework  that the issuance  is 
backed by two layers of external reviews to ensure 
maximum transparency and certainty for investors: 
- Layer one, Verification by PCS 
- Layer two, CBI Certification. 
Meets 
4.2.4 
UniLeasing will engage  an approved verifier  to conduct 
post-issuance assurance to the Update Reports to reaffirm 
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard while the 
Bond remains outstanding. 
Meets 
4.2.5 
UniLeasing confirmed that the prospectus or final terms will 
include a CBI disclaimer provided in the Certification 
Agreement. 
Meets 
  
 
9 
 
INDEPENDENTE LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 
www.pcslatam.com 
 
Disclaimer 
The intellectual property rights to this Verification Report are vested exclusively in Pacific Corporate 
Sustainability. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Pacific Corporate Sustainability, no part of this 
report may be reproduced, disseminated, or published in any way or by any means.  
Nothing contained in this Report shall be interpreted as to make a warranty, express or implied, regarding the 
advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. Furthermore, this Report 
shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the financial performance and credit worthiness 
of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
The client is fully accountable for certifying and safeguarding its commitments` fulfillment, execution, and 
monitoring. 
About Pacific Corporate Sustainability (PCS) 
PCS has the objective of  integrating sustainability standards into business strategies, based on global trends 
with potential investors and society. PCS belongs to Pacific Credit Rating Group (PCR), the only rating group 
with a real and direct international presence in Latin Amer ica, with 27 years of experience providing quality 
service in the region. 
The PCR Group is a signatory member of the Principles 
of Responsible Investment promoted by the United 
Nations, being the only Latin American rating group that 
is part of the Financ ial Rating Agencies Initiative at a 
global level. It has also been recognized as a supporting 
institution for the Financial Initiative of the United Nations 
Environment Program (UNEP FI) to promote sustainable 
finance. 
PCR Group has been certified by the Climate Bonds 
Standard Board as an approved verifier organization 
since March 2020. This accreditation has reinforced its 
commitment to promote sustainable finance in the region, 
highlighting the generation of awareness and 
benchmarking of good practices. 
www.pcslatam.com 
 contacto@pcslatam.com 
 Pacific Corporate Sustainability