© Sustainalytics 2025  
 
 
1 
Victoria Power Networks 
PROGRAMMATIC PRE-ISSUANCE VERIFICATION LETTER  
ELECTRICAL GRIDS AND STORAGE CRITERIA OF THE CLIMATE BONDS STANDARD 
Type of engagement: Assurance Engagement 
Period engagement was carried out: July 2025 
Approved verifier: Sustainalytics 
Contact address for engagement: Hoogoorddreef 11, 1101 BA Amsterdam, Netherlands 
Pre-Issuance Engagement Team: 
Akshay Chandrakapure, akshay.chandrakapure@morningstar.com  
Vipula Pandita, vipula.pandita@morningstar.com  
 
Scope and Objectives 
Victoria Power Networks  (“VPN” or the “Company” ) developed the Victoria Power Networks 
Sustainable Financing Framework (the “Framework”) under which it intends to issue CBI Certified 
Green Bond s to finance and refinance projects related to  the transmission and distribution of 
electricity and storage of electricity (the “Nominated Projects”). VPN has engaged Sustainalytics 
to review its proposed Green Bonds and verify that it meets the Pre-Issuance Requirements of the 
Climate Bonds Standard version 4.3.1  
Pre-Issuance Evaluation Criteria 
Pre-Issuance requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.3: 
• Use of Proceeds 
• Evaluation and Selection of Projects, including conformance with the relevant Sector 
Criteria 
- Electrical Grids and Storage Criteria2 
▪ Transmission and Distribution Networks (Grids) 
▪ Electricity Storage Facilities 
• Management of Proceeds 
• Reporting 
Issuing Entity’s Responsibility  
VPN is responsible for providing information and documents relating to: 
• The details concerning the selection process for the Nominated Projects. 
• The details of the Nominated Projects. 
• The management systems for internal processes and controls for projects, including: 
tracking of proceeds, managing unallocated proceeds and earmarking funds to projects. 
• The details of the issuer’s commitments prior to issuance  for reporting, including: 
investment areas, management of unallocated proceeds and frequency of periodic 
assurance engagements. 
 
1 Climate Bonds Initiative, Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.3, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/documents/CBI_Standard_V4.3_FINAL_2025-08-20-102147_gbqn.pdf   
2 Climate Bonds Initiative, Electrical Grids and Storage Criteria, at: https://www.climatebonds.net/files/documents/Climate-
Bonds_Electricalal-Grids-Storage_Criteria-document_November-2021.pdf  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
2 
Independence and Quality Control 
Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG and corporate governance research and ratings to 
investors, conducted the verification of the proposed Green Bonds to provide an independent 
opinion on their conformance with the Pre-Issuance Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Sustainalytics has relied on the information and the facts presented by VPN with respect to the 
Nominated Projects. Sustainalytics is not responsible nor shall it be held liable for any inaccuracies 
in the opinions, findings or conclusions herein due to incorrect or incomplete data provided by VPN. 
Sustainalytics makes all efforts to ensure the highest quality and rigor during its assessment 
process and enlisted its Sustainability Bonds Review Committee to provide oversight over the 
assessment of the bond. 
Verifier’s Responsibility 
Sustainalytics conducted the verification in accordance with the Climate Bond s Standard Version 
4.3 and with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000).  
The work undertaken as part of this engagement included conversations with relevant  VPN 
employees and the review of relevant documentation to assess the conformance of the proposed 
Green Bonds with the Climate Bonds Certification Pre-Issuance Requirements. 
Conclusion   
VPN intends to issue its Green Financing Instruments to finance and refinance new or existing 
electrical grid related assets and projects, including capital expenditures and, where applicable, 
operating and other related costs. 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted, nothing has come to Sustainalytics’ 
attention that causes us to believe that, in all material aspects, the proposed Green Bonds is not in 
conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard’s Pre-Issuance Requirements. 
 
  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
3 
Schedule 1: Overview of Nominated Projects and 
Assets 
Details of the Nominated Projects and Assets that will receive financing or refinancing are 
provided below: 
Asset or Activity Class Asset or Activity3 Eligible Assets or Activities 
Transmissions and 
Distribution Networks (Grids) 
Low Voltage (LV) Network 
Equipment to allow for 
exchange of renewable 
electricity between users. 
High Voltage (HV) renewable 
network connections, 
including transformers 
Equipment and 
infrastructure where the 
main objective is to 
increase the generation or 
use of renewable electricity 
generation. 
Operational Technology (OT) 
systems 
Equipment to increase the 
controllability and 
observability of the 
electricity system and 
enable the development 
and integration of 
renewable energy sources. 
Smart meters 
Equipment to provide 
information to users, for 
remotely acting on 
consumption such as, but 
not limited to, advanced 
(also known as smart) 
metering infrastructure, 
including customer data 
hubs. 
Other electricity transmission, 
distribution and related assets 
 
Other equipment and 
infrastructure in systems 
which are on a trajectory to 
full decarbonization.  
 
 
 
  
 
3 Detailed description of the assets is included in Appendix 1. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
4 
Schedule 2: Conformance to the Pre-Issuance 
Requirements of the Climate Bonds Standard4,5 
Procedure 
Performed Factual Findings Error or Exceptions 
Identified 
A.2.1. Use of 
Proceeds 
2.1.1 VPN has developed a list of proposed 
Nominated Projects which comply with the 
Electrical Grids and Storage  Criteria of the 
Climate Bonds Standard. VPN intends to keep 
this list updated. The proposed Nominated 
Projects include: 
• LV network 
• HV renewable network connections, including 
transformers 
• OT systems 
• Smart meters 
• Other electricity transmission, distribution 
and related assets 
 
2.1.2 VPN confirms that  all the Nominated Projects 
will meet the documented objectives of the debt 
instrument as set out in the VPN’s Framework. 
2.1.3 VPN confirms that it  will allocate 100% of the 
net proceeds of the debt instrument to projects 
and assets that meet the Electrical Grids and 
Storage Criteria requirements of the Climate 
Bonds Standard. 
2.1.4 N/A 
2.1.5 N/A 
2.1.6 VPN confirms that the net proceeds of the debt 
instrument will not be greater than the total 
investment exposure to the proposed 
Nominated Projects or the relevant proportion 
of the total market value of the proposed 
Nominated Projects owned or funded by VPN. 
2.1.7 VPN’s management confirms that the 
Nominated Projects will not be nominated to 
other certified debt Instrument s unless VPN 
demonstrates that distinct portions of the 
Nominated Projects are being funded by 
different certified debt  instruments or , the 
present certified debt instrument is being 
None 
 
4 Climate Bonds Initiative, Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.3, at: 
https://www.climatebonds.net/files/documents/CBI_Standard_V4.3_FINAL_2025-08-20-102147_gbqn.pdf   
5 For ease of reference, the numbering in this section follows the numbering of the Climate Bonds Standard Version 4.3. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
5 
refinanced via another certified debt  
instrument. 
A.2.2. Process 
for Evaluation 
and Selection 
of Projects 
and Assets 
2.2.1 VPN established and documented a decision-
making process to determine the eligibility of 
the Nominated Projects. 
2.2.2 VPN’s decision -making process mentioned in 
2.2.1 above includes the following: 
i. The climate -related objectives of the debt 
instrument. 
ii. How the climate-related objectives of the 
debt instrument are positioned within the 
context of VPN’s overarching objectives, 
strategy, policy and processes relating to 
environmental sustainability. 
iii. VPN’s rationale for issuing the debt 
instrument is  to support  VPN’s 
sustainability objectives and support the 
financing and refinancing of projects with 
clear environmental benefits. 
iv. A process to determine how the proposed 
Nominated Projects meet the eligibility 
requirements of the Climate Bonds 
Standard, including the relevant Sector 
Criteria. VPN’s Treasury Team is 
responsible for asset identification, 
evaluating potential Nominated Projects, 
approving the allocation of proceeds, and 
ensuring compliance with all aspects of the 
Framework. 
v. VPN has sufficient measures in place to 
manage and mitigate environmental and 
social risks that are commonly associated 
with the Nominated Projects. 
None 
A.2.3. 
Management 
of Proceeds 
2.3.1 VPN has documented and disclosed to 
Sustainalytics the systems, policies and 
processes it will use to manage the net 
proceeds. 
i. Tracking of  proceeds: VPN has a process in 
place to track and monitor the proceeds.  
ii. Managing unallocated proceeds:  VPN will 
manage any unallocated net proceeds by 
applying them to one or more of the following: 
temporary cash or cash equivalent instruments 
within its treasury operations; temporary 
investments that exclude greenhouse gas -
intensive projects inconsistent w ith the 
transition to a low -carbon, climate -resilient 
economy; or temporarily using them to reduce 
None 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
6 
revolving indebtedness, with the intention to 
reallocate the funds to Green Projects at a later 
stage.   
iii. Earmarking funds to Nominated Projects: VPN 
details the process it will use to allocate and 
manage proceeds of the debt  instrument. This 
will enable the estimation of the share of the net 
proceeds being used for financing and 
refinancing. 
2.3.2 As the proceeds of the debt instrument must be 
ring-fenced, VPN has confirmed that the 
proceeds will be credited to designated bank 
accounts that can only fund the specified 
Nominated Projects. VPN will track and monitor 
all payments from the designated bank 
accounts. 
A.2.4. Pre-
Issuance 
Reporting 
2.4.1 VPN has prepared a framework and has made it 
publicly available prior to or at the time of 
issuance. In the case of loans and other private 
transactions, VPN has the option to disclose 
the Framework only to the lender(s). 
2.4.2 The framework mentioned in 2.4.1 includes: 
i. A statement of compliance with the 
Climate Bonds Standard  and other 
applicable standards, such as the Green 
Bond Principles or the United Nations 
Sustainability Development Goals. 
ii. A summary of the  expected use of 
proceeds. 
iii. A description of VPN’s decision-making 
process 
iv. A d escription of VPN’s processes for 
managing the proceeds 
v. A d escription of VPN’s processes for 
reporting and external review or 
verification 
2.4.3 VPN has confirmed the following: 
i. VPN’s Nominated Projects conform with 
the Electrical Grids and Storage  Criteria. 
VPN may report on the following impact 
metrics: a) total installed capacity of 
renewable energy generation  on VPN’s 
network, b) Annual GHG emissions 
reduced/avoided in tonnes of CO 2 
equivalent, c) Value of network and 
technology investments in innovation, d) 
Number of new connections, e) Residential 
rooftop solar  (MW of rooftop systems 
None 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
7 
installed by residential customers and 
number of customers with rooftop solar), f) 
Smart meters (total and attributable 
number) and g) Percentage availability of 
reliable power. 
ii. VPN will manage unallocated net proceeds 
in accordance with Clause A.3.3.3 of the 
Climate Bonds Standard.  
iii. VPN has confirmed that it will report its 
allocation and impact reporting via a green 
bond report. The report will include a 
description of conformance with the 
Climate Bonds Standards criteria and on 
its certified operations . VPN’s Nominated 
Projects meet the Electrical Grids and 
Storage Criteria. VPN will report on the 
investment areas in which the Nominated 
Projects qualify by reporting on an annual 
basis on the allocation and impact of the 
net proceeds of the green debt 
instruments. 
iv. VPN’s green financing pool currently 
comprises a mix of refinanced and new/to 
be financed Eligible Green Projects. Where 
proceeds are allocated towards the 
refinancing of assets, VPN ensures that 
these projects are still operational, meet 
the Eligibility Criteria under the Framework, 
and have a remaining useful life that 
extends beyond  the maturity of the 
relevant Green Financing Instrument. In 
the case of operating expenditures, VPN 
commits to only refinancing expenses 
incurred within two years prior to th e 
issuance date, unless otherwise certified 
by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI). The 
specific breakdown between refinancing 
and new financing is determined at the 
time of each issuance and disclosed 
accordingly, with final confirmation 
provided through post-issuance reporting. 
2.4.5 VPN has confirmed that it s disclosure 
documentation will include:  
i. Nominated Projects will conform with the 
Electrical Grids and Storage criteria. 
ii. The intended types of temporary 
investment instruments for the 
management of unallocated net proceeds 
are in accordance with Clause A.3.3.3 of 
the Climate Bonds Standard. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
8 
iii. The name of the approved third -party 
verifier engaged by VPN to obtain the 
Climate Bonds Standard certification.  
iv. VPN’s Nominated Projects meet the 
Electrical Grids and Storage Criteria. VPN 
will report on the investment areas in 
which the Nominated Projects qualify by 
reporting annually on the allocation and 
impact of the net proceeds of the green 
debt instruments. 
v. The CBI Disclaimer provided in the 
Certification Agreement. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
9 
Annexure 1: CBI Electrical Grids and Storage Criteria 
 
Appendix 1: Mitigation Requirements 
 
Asset or Activity 
Class Asset Name Description Overall Assessment 
Transmission and 
Distribution 
Networks (Grids) 
 
LV network 
VPN’s LV network supports the 
integration, distribution, and daily 
transmission of renewable 
electricity from both the 
transmission grid and user sources. 
It is expected to accommodate 
increasing renewable generation 
and includes assets such as 
earthing systems, overhead lines, 
poles, protection equipment, service 
lines, switchgear, and underground 
cables. 
VPN’s LV network 
automatically meets the 
mitigation component of the 
criteria because it allows for 
the exchange of renewable 
electricity between users. 
HV renewable network 
connections, including 
transformers 
VPN’s HV renewable connections 
are designed to integrate and 
distribute renewable electricity and 
are expected to support growing 
renewable generation. These 
embedded networks include assets 
such as earthing systems, overhead 
lines, poles, switchgear, 
underground cables, control 
equipment, and zone substations. 
VPN’s (HV) network 
automatically meets the 
mitigation component of the 
criteria as its primary purpose 
is to increase the generation or 
use of renewable electricity. 
OT systems 
VPN uses OT systems, such as 
Supervisory Control and Data 
Acquisition (SCADA), to monitor and 
control its electricity distribution 
network. These systems enable 
real-time data collection, voltage 
management, integration of 
renewables, and restoring power 
after outages. 
VPN’s OT systems 
automatically meet the 
mitigation component as they 
increase the controllability and 
observability of the electricity 
system and enable the 
development and integration of 
renewable energy sources. 
Smart meters 
VPN’s smart meters measure actual 
electricity use and enable two-way 
communication, capturing both 
electricity consumed from the grid, 
and electricity fed into the grid. 
Through the myEnergy portal, 
customers can monitor and manage 
energy consumption and enable 
customers to be metered and 
settled at the same time resolution 
as the imbalance settlement period 
in the national market. 
VPN’s smart meters 
automatically meet the 
mitigation component of the 
criteria because they are 
equipment that carries 
information to users for 
remotely acting on 
consumption. Specifically, 
VPN’s smart meters accurately 
measure actual electricity 
consumption and time of use 
information, providing two-way 
communication of this 
information to both household 
and business customers and 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
10 
energy companies, inclusive of 
retailers and distributed 
network service providers 
(DNSPs) like VPN. 
Other electricity 
transmission, 
distribution and related 
assets 
This involves other equipment 
related to transmission and 
distribution assets that do not 
automatically meet eligible 
categories for mitigation 
requirements.  
VPN has confirmed that for 
transmission and distribution 
assets not classified under the 
‘automatically eligible 
categories for mitigation’, they 
will ensure that the systems on 
which such assets are installed 
are on a trajectory toward full 
decarbonization. Specifically, 
these systems will either 
operate below the threshold of 
100gCO₂e/kWh on a rolling 
five-year average basis, or at 
least 67% of the newly 
connected generation capacity 
will meet this threshold over 
the same period. 
 
 
  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
11 
Appendix 2: Adaptation and Resilience Requirements 
 
Items Proof Given Overall Assessment 
Section 1: Clear boundaries and critical interdependencies between the infrastructure and the system it operates within 
are identified. 
1.1 Boundaries of the infrastructure are 
defined using (1) a listing of all 
infrastructure and assets and activities 
associated with the use of the bond 
proceeds, (2) a map of their location, and 
(3) identification of the expected 
operational life of the activity, asset or 
project. 
VPN provided the following 
documents: 
i. Distribution Annual 
Planning Report6 
ii. Asset class 
overview for 
CitiPower and 
Powercor7 
iii. Regulatory 
Information 
Notices for 
CitiPower and 
Powercor8 
VPN has defined the project boundaries 
and identified key interdependencies 
between its infrastructure and the 
broader system it operates within. The 
Distribution Annual Planning Report 
and asset class documentation 
includes: 
i. A comprehensive description of the 
project site and its surrounding 
environment. 
ii. Mapped locations of relevant 
infrastructure. 
iii. An overview of the asset class, 
including the expected operational life 
of various poles are outlined in the 
asset class documentation. 
1.2 Critical interdependencies between the 
infrastructure and the system within which 
it operates are identified. Identification of 
these interdependencies should consider 
the potential for adverse impacts arising 
from, but not limited to:  
(1) the effects of supply disruption or 
interruption on dependent electricity users 
or populations;  
(2) exacerbation of wildfires;  
(3) relationships of the asset/project to 
nearby flood zones;  
(4) reduction in pollinating insects and 
birds;  
VPN provided the following 
documents: 
i. Bushfire Mitigation 
Plan for CitiPower 
and Powercor11 
ii. Network Resilience 
Plan12 
iii. First People 
Engagement 
Report13 
(1) VPN has identified the 
interdependencies between its 
infrastructure and the broader 
energy system, with a focus on the 
impact of supply disruptions on 
vulnerable users, particularly those 
dependent on electricity for life 
support equipment. To reduce 
adverse impacts, VPN maintains a 
register of such customers in 
collaboration with energy retailers, 
ensuring they are identified, 
informed, and protected under 
regulations by the Essential 
Services Commission Victoria. 
 
6 VPN, “Distribution Annual Planning Report for PowerCor & CitiPower”, at: https://media.powercor.com.au/wp-
content/uploads/2024/12/31085241/DAPR_2024_Powercor_Distribution-Annual-Planning-Report-1.zip; CitiPower : 
https://media.powercor.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/31085532/DAPR_2024_Citipower_Distribution-Annual-Planning-Report-1.zip.   
7 VPN, “Asset Class Overview for PowerCor and CitiPower”, at: https://www.aer.gov.au/system/files/2025-
02/PAL%20BUS%204.01%20%E2%80%93%20Poles%20%E2%80%93%20Jan2025.pdf ; CitiPower: 
https://www.aer.gov.au/system/files/2025-
02/CP%20BUS%204.01%20%E2%80%93%20Poles%20%E2%80%93%20Jan2025%20%E2%80%93%20Public.pdf.  
8 VPN, “Regulatory Information Notices for CitiPower and PowerCor”, at: CitiPower: 
https://www.aer.gov.au/publications/reports/performance/citipower-network-information-rin-responses ; PowerCor: 
https://www.aer.gov.au/publications/reports/performance/powercor-network-information-rin-responses.   
11 VPN, “Bushfire Mitigation Plan for Powercor and CitiPower”, at: https://www.aer.gov.au/documents/pal-att-909-bushfire-mitigation-plan-
version-102-oct2023 ; CitiPower: https://media.powercor.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/07181113/CP-BFM-Plan-Rev5-9Dec19-
signed-FINAL-2.pdf  
12 VPN, “Network Resilience Plan”, at: https://www.aer.gov.au/system/files/2025-02/PAL%20ATT%205.02%20-
%20Network%20resilience%20plan%20-%20Jan2025.pdf  
13 VPN, “First People Engagement Report”, at: https://hdp-au-prod-app-cp-engage-files.s3.ap-southeast-
2.amazonaws.com/6717/3873/3986/CitiPower_-_FP_engagement_report.pdf.  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
12 
(5) reduction in biodiversity or High 
Conservation Value9 habitat; 
(6) damage or reduction in value of 
neighbouring property due to boundary 
structures at risk of falling during storm 
events;  
(7) fire and other practices that affect air 
quality; 
(8) appropriation of land or economic 
assets from nearby vulnerable groups10 
Customers receive timely 
notifications of planned or 
unplanned outages via SMS and/or 
email and are encouraged to 
prepare back-up plans with 
medical professionals. Options 
include backup power, alternate 
accommodation, and emergency 
contacts. This proactive approach 
helps safeguard vulnerable 
populations during supply 
interruptions. VPN has shared 
guidance on its website to help 
customers during power outages, 
including specific instructions for 
life support customers who depend 
on electricity to operate essential 
medical equipment.14,15 
(2) Electricity networks inherently 
carry a risk of fire ignition, and 
VPN’s Powercor has identified 
several interdependencies between 
its infrastructure and the broader 
environmental system that could 
exacerbate wildfire events. Key 
ignition risks include electrical 
faults, hardware failures, and 
contact with vegetation, animals, 
or contaminated equipment. 
Approximately 51% of Powercor’s 
network assets are located in 
Hazardous Bushfire Risk Areas 
(HBRA), and bushfire mitigation 
strategies are updated in line with 
Country Fire Authority (CFA) fire 
hazard mapping. VPN’s CitiPower 
operates in areas without identified 
HBRAs, and therefore does not 
apply the same operational 
restrictions or mitigation practices.  
(3) Extreme rainfall events pose a 
significant threat to electricity 
infrastructure through increased 
risk of flooding. Impacts include 
damage to towers, poles, and 
substations, limited access for 
repairs, and increased outage 
durations. Zone substations are 
particularly critical, as they are 
 
9 High Conservation Value (HCV) habitat criteria in accordance with https://www.hcvnetwork.org.  
10 According to IFC Performance Standards. 
14 VPN, “Life Support Services”, at: https://www.powercor.com.au/for-your-home/life-support-services/  
15 VPN, “Emergency Advice”, at: https://www.powercor.com.au/power-outages-and-emergencies/emergency/  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
13 
single points of failure, flooding 
can result in widespread service 
disruptions, affecting essential 
services like water treatment, 
communications, and life support 
equipment. Flood overlays show 
varying exposure levels across 
networks: 
i. CitiPower: Up to 18% of zone 
substations intersect with 
flood zones, notably in areas 
like St Kilda and Fitzroy. 
ii. Powercor: High-risk areas 
include parts of Barwon 
Southwest and Shepparton, 
with up to 13% of zone 
substations intersecting flood 
zones. 
(4) VPN takes proactive steps in its 
standard construction designs to 
help prevent electrical contact, 
especially in areas at higher risk. 
This includes using bird diverters 
and covers to protect both the 
network and local wildlife. 
(5) VPN has implemented procedures 
to assess the biodiversity impacts 
of new assets and upgrades, 
aiming to minimize these impacts 
wherever possible and secure the 
necessary regulatory approvals. 
VPN is also strengthening its 
maintenance and line clearance 
practices by enhancing staff 
training and improving the 
identification of areas with 
protected flora and fauna. 
Additional details are available in 
VPN’s Environment and Heritage 
Framework. 
(6) VPN has a clear process in place 
for handling damage claims related 
to property or possessions that are 
affected by power supply issues or 
activities carried out as part of its 
operations. Information on how to 
make a claim is available on its 
website.16   
(7) Bushfires can damage overhead 
network assets, disrupt electricity 
supply, and create major safety 
 
16 VPN, “Claims”, at: https://www.powercor.com.au/contact-us/claims/.  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
14 
risks for the public. Smoke and 
airborne particles can also affect 
sensitive equipment and increase 
operational challenges. To manage 
these risks, VPN has developed 
Bushfire Mitigation Plans aimed at 
reducing the threat of bushfires as 
much as possible. 
(8)  VPN engages with local 
community groups and 
stakeholders to reduce the impact 
of its activities on Aboriginal, 
historical, natural, and industrial 
sites. The approach and processes 
are detailed on VPN’s website.  For 
projects located in areas with 
known or high cultural heritage 
value, VPN ensures engagement 
with Traditional Owner Groups and 
carries out appropriate surveys and 
monitoring, as outlined in its First 
People Engagement report.  
Section 2: An assessment has been undertaken to identify the key physical climate hazards to which the infrastructure 
will be exposed and vulnerable to over its operating life. 
2.1 Key physical climate risks and 
indicators of these risks are identified in 
line with the following guidelines.  
• Risks are identified based on  
(a) a range of climate hazards, and (b) 
information about risks in the current local 
context, including reference to any 
previously identified relevant hazard 
zones, e.g., flood zones. 
 
In order to be confident that assets and 
activities are robust and flexible in the 
face of climate change uncertainties, it is 
essential that the climate risks being 
assessed and addressed cover those that 
are of greatest relevance to T&D grids and 
electrical energy storage. The physical 
characteristics of climate change that 
must be considered in the risk assessment 
include: 
• Temperature rise 
o High temperatures can impact on 
the electrical rating of assets, reducing 
transmission capacity and potentially 
reducing the ability of the network to 
meet demand. 
VPN provided the following 
proof of documents: 
i. Network Resilience 
Plan 
ii. Climate Change 
study for Victorian 
Electricity 
Distribution 
Businesses-Phase 
117 
 
VPN’s Network Resilience Plan and the 
AECOM Climate Change Study for Victorian 
Electricity Distribution Businesses – Phase 
1 outline the company’s approach to 
identifying and managing key physical 
climate hazards. 
The most significant physical climate risks 
for VPN include severe storms, heatwaves, 
bushfires, and flooding. Based on the 
characteristics and geographic distribution 
of VPN’s network assets, the following 
physical climate risks are considered 
immaterial or not applicable: 
• Landslides/ground movement 
• Increased lightning activity 
• Sea-level rise 
• Increased snow, sleet, ice, and 
freezing fog 
• Increased coastal and river erosion 
 
Bushfires 
Bushfire risk is a key physical climate 
hazard for electricity networks, and VPN has 
assessed this using the Forest Fire Danger 
Index (FFDI). Bushfires, supported by hot 
 
17 VPN, “Climate Change Study for Victorian Electricity Distribution Business Phase 2”, at: https://www.aer.gov.au/system/files/2025-
02/PAL%20ATT%205.01%20-%20AECOM%20-%20Methodology%20report%20-%20May2024.pdf. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
15 
o Increasing temperatures can also 
result in extension of overhead lines, 
which reduces the clearance above 
trees. 
o Increased temperatures may also 
result in changes to the load on 
assets, due to increased cooling 
demands (higher summer peak 
demands) and less winter heating 
(reduced winter peak). 
• Increased heavy rainfall  
o Heavy rainfall can result in flash 
pluvial flooding, which could 
significantly impact electrical assets, 
particularly ground mounted assets. 
• Sea-level rises  
o Potential for flooding of coastal 
infrastructure and assets at risk from 
storm surge events. 
• Increased lightning  
o Lightning strikes have potential to 
cause transient outages due to power 
surges. 
• Increased winds / gales  
o Strong winds can cause damage to 
overhead transmission and 
distribution lines and supporting 
infrastructure (pylons and poles).  
o Up-rooting of trees and vegetation 
can also have an impact on power 
lines. 
• Increased snow, sleet, ice, freezing fog 
 o Ice and snow accretion can make 
overhead power lines vulnerable to 
highwinds  
o Snow and ice can also impede 
access to sites for repairs in the event 
of a fault. 
• Increased coastal / river erosion  
o Risk to assets in coastal or riverbank 
locations 
• Wildfires  
o Wildfires present a risk to electricity 
infrastructure in affected areas and 
can significantly inhibit access to 
repair damaged infrastructure.  
o Electricity infrastructure can also be 
a cause of wildfires. For example, 
contact between transmission lines 
and dry vegetation has potential to 
start fires. 
• Landslides / ground movement 
and windy conditions, can significantly 
damage or destroy exposed overhead 
assets, including communications 
equipment, overhead distribution lines, 
poles, and substations, often resulting in 
multiple outages and substantially delayed 
response efforts. In addition, bushfires can 
cause prolonged smoky conditions, which 
limit solar energy production and thereby 
impact local network demand and load 
balancing. 
 
Flooding 
Flooding from intense rainfall events is also 
a key concern. Heavy and sustained 
precipitation can cause major flooding, 
including flash or surface flooding, which 
may damage exposed assets such as 
substations and poles, and reduce 
clearance and access to overhead 
powerlines, affecting network reliability and 
restoration times. VPN evaluates this risk 
using baseline data for 1% and 2% Annual 
Exceedance Probability (AEP) 24-hour 
rainfall events, sourced from the Bureau of 
Meteorology’s Australian Rainfall and 
Runoff Data Hub. 
 
Heatwaves 
Extreme heat is a key physical climate risk, 
particularly for electricity infrastructure, 
which can be vulnerable to overheating and 
equipment stress. Heatwaves increase grid 
stress, raise summer peak demand, 
accelerate asset ageing, and cause 
overhead line sag, requiring derating. 
Sustained high temperatures especially 
high overnight temperature can lead to 
asset failures, outages, and affect 
communications and protection systems. 
They also disrupt field operations and 
workforce safety. 
Projections for temperature rise and heat-
related impacts are based on  
the Victorian Climate Projections 2019, 
which provide data across different 
scenarios and timeframes. The selection of 
the specific variable will be dependent on 
the cause of asset failure being considered. 
 
Severe Storms 
Severe storms and high winds are key 
physical climate risks for electricity 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
16 
 o Potential to risk to both 
underground and above ground 
infrastructure from ground movement.  
o Potential for access to be impeded 
for repairs. 
Issuers might consider the climate risks 
posed through specific interdependencies 
which might include, for example: 
• Availability of 
telecommunications for control 
systems and operational / field 
staff communications when 
dealing with extreme weather 
events, where the 
telecommunications rely on third 
party providers and 
infrastructure. 
• Flood risk and resilience will 
likely have interdependencies 
with local and national agencies, 
for example related to local flood 
defences, coastal flood risk 
management, shoreline 
management plans etc. 
Optional guidance for carrying out risk 
assessments: 
• Users should apply climate 
scenarios based on 
representative concentration 
pathway (RCP) 4.5 and 8.5 or 
similar / equivalent to ensure 
consideration for worst case 
scenario. 
• A broad range of models can be 
used to generate climate 
scenarios. 
• Time horizons for assessing 
climate risk in agriculture can be 
based on annual seasonal 
forecasts and every ten years for 
the lifetime of the assets and 
projects. Where accurate 
assessments of climate 
variability for specific locations 
are not possible, use worst-case 
scenarios. 
• Risks can be characterized by 
the associated annual probability 
of failure or annual costs of loss 
or damage. 
• For risk assessment, the TCFD 
The Use of Scenario Analysis in 
Disclosure of Climate Related 
networks, with the potential to damage 
poles, lines, and critical infrastructure. 
Storms can also generate debris including 
falling trees that may damage exposed 
assets or place excessive structural loads 
on network components, leading to outages 
and increasing the risk to public safety or 
bushfires. 
To assess these risks, historical baseline 
wind data has been sourced from the 
Electricity Sector Climate Information (ESCI) 
Project, acknowledging the limited 
availability of downscaled wind projections 
in Victoria’s current datasets. This includes 
coarse-scale historic data relevant to asset 
exposure. For future conditions, extreme 
wind data from CLIM systems have been 
used for the 2030 and 2070 timeframes to 
better understand the potential impact on 
network resilience. 
 
Optional guidance for carrying out risk 
assessments 
VPN’s Network Resilience Plan and 
AECOM’s Climate Change Study for 
Victorian Electricity Distribution Businesses 
- Phase 1 has been produced in alignment 
with the TCFD Framework: 
 • Climate scenarios of RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 
were applied.  
• Projections were modelled for the years 
2050 and 2070. 
As climate forecast data improves, VPN 
plans to conduct further physical climate-
related risk assessments using scenario 
analysis. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
17 
Risks and Opportunities is 
recommended. 
Section 3: The measures that have or will be taken to address those risks, mitigate them to a level such that the 
infrastructure is suitable to climate change conditions over its operational life. 
3.1 The following are examples of risk 
management activities that bond issuers 
might consider, or that might be adopted 
as part of regulations (e.g. codes and 
standards). This list is not exhaustive and 
bond issuers should fully assess the 
mitigation measures that are relevant to 
the climate risks and impacts identified in 
the risk assessment. 
 
Temperature: 
 - Design standards that maintain 
equipment rating over its lifetime 
performance in the face of all potential 
ranges of temperature rise 
 - Manage vegetation under power 
lines to ensure adequate clearance is 
maintained 
 - Assess changing demand profile 
(milder winters, increased summer 
cooling) over equipment lifetime 
Rainfall:  
- Design for resilience to pluvial 
flooding 
 - Assessment of site drainage 
requirements - Impact of restricted 
access to sites / lines due to flooding 
Increased lightning: 
 - Design of electrical equipment to 
withstand lightning impulses, 
including shielding and surge 
suppression devices 
 - Redundancy 
Increased winds / gales: 
 - Design to withstand extreme winds 
 - Cut vegetation regularly to safe 
distance to reduce risk from up-rooting 
 - Invest in storm and hurricane 
forecasting tools 
 - Consider placing cables underground 
 - Redundancy 
Increased snow, sleet, ice, freezing fog: 
 - Design equipment for ice loading  
- Suitable vehicles for access to sites 
in heavy snow / icy conditions 
Increased flooding: 
 - Flood risk assessment and planning.  
- Site ground installations outside of 
potentially affected zones 
VPN provided the following 
proof of documents: 
i. Network Resilience 
Plan 
VPN’s Network Resilience Plan details its 
approach to identifying and managing 
climate-related physical risks, including 
measures for preparedness, mitigation, and 
adaptation. The plan focuses on addressing 
the impacts of extreme weather events, 
particularly flooding, bushfires, and severe 
windstorms. It also highlights community 
resilience programmes, which serve as 
broader risk reduction efforts not tied to any 
single climate hazard. 
 
Bushfires 
VPN has established measures to prevent 
bushfires originating from its assets; 
however, with the increasing threat of fires 
from external sources, the focus is now 
expanding to enhance the resilience of the 
network itself. 
To support this, VPN is implementing a 
range of targeted, cost-effective actions: 
• Replacing wooden poles in high fire-risk 
areas with non-combustible 
alternatives at end-of-life. 
• Treating existing wooden poles with 
fire-retardant products to extend 
protection. 
• Using catastrophic bushfire mapping to 
prioritise resilience upgrades like 
undergrounding or covering conductors 
in the highest risk areas. 
These measures aim to ensure that VPN’s 
network can continue to operate safely and 
reliably as bushfire risks grow under future 
climate conditions. 
 
Flooding 
While flood behaviour is becoming more 
unpredictable due to climate change, clearly 
defined flood plains enable targeted 
preparation. VPN’s flood resilience strategy 
focuses on assessing asset vulnerabilities 
and implementing site-specific remedial 
actions rather than broad, high-cost 
interventions. 
Key measures include: 
• Integrating flood risk overlays into GIS 
systems to raise awareness of the 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
18 
 - Ensure flood defence systems and 
coastal management plans are 
adequate  
- Consideration of site access during 
flooding events 
Increased coastal / river erosion: 
- Shoreline management plans / 
coastal erosion assessment 
Wildfires: 
 - Management of vegetation around 
electricity infrastructure to ensure 
adequate clearance 
Landslides / ground movement: 
 - The potential for ground movement 
and landslides should be taken into 
account when assessing sites for 
installing grid infrastructure. 
General risk mitigation measures:  
- Business continuity plans 
 - System restoration plans 
 - Black start 
 - Islanded operation / microgrids 
 - System security standards 
future asset sites and ensure design 
standards specifically include checks 
for flood plans.   
• Upgrading existing zone substations 
exposed to current 1-in-100-year flood 
risks. 
• Addressing future flood risks 
opportunistically during major site 
upgrades. 
• Reviewing HV and sub-transmission 
line crossings in flood-prone areas to 
ensure emergency access and safety 
protocols are in place. 
• Improving flood modelling to keep 
historical benchmarks relevant under 
future climate scenarios. 
Given the cost implications, relocating or 
undergrounding major assets are not 
considered viable based solely on future 
projections. Instead, VPN’s approach 
focuses on practical, risk-based mitigation 
to ensure flood resilience over the asset 
lifecycle. 
 
Heatwaves 
Most of VPN’s network assets are designed 
to withstand ambient temperatures up to 
40°C. However, with climate projections 
indicating an increase in the number of days 
exceeding this threshold, VPN is taking 
proactive, cost-effective steps to adapt 
infrastructure and operations without 
premature asset replacement. 
Key measures include: 
• Reviewing and updating equipment 
ratings for thermally sensitive assets 
and adjusting operational limits where 
needed. 
• Revising equipment procurement 
standards to ensure new equipment is 
suited to higher temperatures. 
• Enhancing zone substation designs to 
better manage internal temperatures 
through, for example, improved 
ventilation, insulation, and energy-
efficient solutions. 
• Seasonal readiness planning ahead of 
summer, including maintenance 
completion, inventory checks, and 
updates to contingency and resourcing 
plans. 
• Installing temperature monitoring on 
select critical assets to track 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
19 
performance during extreme heat 
events. 
• Improving climate modelling to improve 
forecasting and better understand 
operational impacts and 
consequences. 
Full-scale asset replacement based on 
future heat scenarios is not considered cost 
effective; instead, VPN’s focus is on 
practical upgrades and preparedness to 
maintain reliability during increasingly 
frequent and intense heatwaves. 
 
Severe Storms 
Compared to hazards like bushfires and 
floods, windstorm projections are less 
precise, making it challenging to identify 
specific high-risk areas in advance. As a 
result, VPN’s approach to storm resilience 
focuses on strengthening the network over 
time, using improved design standards and 
data-driven maintenance. 
Key actions include: 
• Updating design standards for new and 
existing overhead lines (AS7000:2016) 
to reduce HV line clashing during high 
winds. 
• Using Light Detection and Ranging 
(LiDAR) assessments to identify and 
address at-risk areas, with targeted 
interventions like installing HV 
spreaders to maintain safe clearances. 
• Continuing LiDAR monitoring to ensure 
ongoing compliance and vegetation 
management. 
• Investing in better climate modelling to 
understand the future impacts of 
windstorms on the network. 
Given current uncertainties and high costs, 
it is not considered cost-effective to 
proactively replace underground assets, or 
to clear vegetation well beyond current 
regulatory requirements based solely on 
future wind projections. 
VPN’s strategy reflects a pragmatic and 
adaptive approach, building resilience 
gradually while responding to evolving 
climate data and storm patterns. 
3.2 Risk reduction measures must be tolerant to a range of climate hazards and not lock-in conditions that could result 
in maladaptation. 
Section 4: The infrastructure enhances the climate resilience of the defined system it operates within, as indicated by 
the boundaries of and critical interdependencies with that system as identified in item 1 in this checklist. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
20 
4.1 Issuers are to assess the climate 
resilience benefits of system focused 
assets and activities and demonstrate 
they are ‘fit for purpose’, in the sense that 
they enhance climate resilience at a 
systemic level, with the flexibility to take 
into account the uncertainty around future 
climate change impacts.  
 
The assessment is conducted according 
to the principle of best available evidence 
during the investment period taking into 
account the infrastructure’s boundaries 
and critical interdependencies as defined 
in Criteria 1. ‘Fit for purpose’ is defined as 
measures that mitigate the following 
effects:  
(1) the effects of supply disruption or 
interruption on dependent electricity users 
or populations; 
 (2) exacerbation of wildfires;  
(3) relationships of the asset/project to 
nearby flood zones;  
(4) reduction in pollinating insects and 
birds;  
(5) reduction in biodiversity or High 
Conservation Value18 habitat;  
(6) damage or reduction in value of 
neighbouring property due to boundary 
structures at risk of falling during storm 
events;  
(7) fire and other practices that affect air 
quality; (8) appropriation of land or 
economic assets from nearby vulnerable 
groups19 
VPN provided the following 
proof of document: 
i. Network Resilience 
Plan 
VPN has established a robust set of plans, 
programmes, and management systems 
aimed at maintaining network reliability and 
strengthening the resilience of 
infrastructure, the workforce, and 
communities. The climate-related risk 
mitigation actions are specifically designed 
to address the growing threats from 
extreme weather events. 
 
VPN’s Network Resilience Plan recognises 
that each climate variable presents distinct 
risks to network assets and customer 
reliability. However, there are common 
resilience-building strategies that can be 
applied across all hazards. The plan 
outlines a proactive approach to managing 
the long-term impacts of climate change by 
embedding climate considerations into 
asset design, planning, and investment 
decisions. Given that network infrastructure 
typically operates for decades, ensuring it 
remains fit for purpose under future climate 
conditions is critical to long-term system 
performance and community reliability. 
 
To support this, VPN is implementing a 
suite of system-wide measures designed to 
enhance resilience regardless of the 
specific climate threat: 
 
• Integrating climate change into all 
business decision-making processes 
and business cases, ensuring future 
conditions are factored into asset 
planning and approval. 
• Revising specifications for new 
equipment and construction standards 
to account for increased exposure to 
extreme heat, wind, and fire, including 
the use of higher-rated assets that 
exceed historical design assumptions. 
• Applying the “Build Back Better” 
principle by replacing end-of-life assets 
with non-like-for-like, climate-resilient 
alternatives that improve overall 
system robustness. 
• Reviewing and maintaining strategic 
spare parts and mobile equipment, 
 
18 High Conservation Value (HCV) habitat criteria in accordance with https://www.hcvnetwork.org.  
19 According to IFC Performance Standards. 
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
21 
such as generators, to enable a faster 
and more flexible emergency response. 
• Updating contingency and resourcing 
plans, ensuring resource deployment 
strategies are optimized for extreme 
weather scenarios and evolving climate 
risks. 
• Ensuring operational continuity through 
resilient Control Centre arrangements, 
including uninterruptible power supply 
(UPS) systems, backup generators, and 
alternate control rooms to support 
network operations if primary sites are 
compromised. 
Section 5: The issuance is required to demonstrate that there will be ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the relevance 
of the risks and resilience measures and related adjustments to those measures will be taken as needed. 
5.1: Indicators for risks identified under 
item 2 in this checklist are provided.  VPN closely monitors a range of 
performance indicators including those 
linked to climate risks through a continuous 
improvement process. Daily event reporting 
helps identify causes and impacts, while 
significant issues are escalated to 
management monthly or as needed. 
Performance is tracked both broadly, using 
network-wide metrics like System Average 
Interruption Frequency Index (SAIDI), 
System Average Interruption Frequency 
Index (SAIFI), and Momentary Average 
Interruption Frequency Index (MAIFI), and in 
detail, through fault cause and asset type 
data. Historic trends are used to determine 
whether the existing programmes provide 
sufficient controls to meet VPN’s current 
business objectives and whether they will 
continue to meet the company’s objectives 
in the future. 
In addition to overall network performance, 
VPN also considers individual customer 
experiences, with risks reflected through the 
Guaranteed Service Level (GSL) incentive 
scheme, which compensates customers for 
poor supply reliability. 
 
5.2: Indicators for risk mitigation 
measures identified under item 3 in this 
checklist are provided. 
 
5.3: Indicators for “fit for purpose” 
resilience benefit measures identified 
under item 4 in this checklist are provided. 
VPN provided the following 
proof of document: 
i. Value of Network 
Resilience20 
 
VPN operates under national and state 
legislation, with resilience benefits guided 
by the Australian Energy Regulator (AER). In 
2024, the AER released a Value of Network 
Resilience document21 focused on 
prolonged outages beyond 12 hours 
 
20 VPN, “Value of Network Resilience”, at: https://www.aer.gov.au/industry/registers/resources/reviews/value-network-resilience-2024.  
21 VPN, “Network Resilience Plan”, at: https://www.aer.gov.au/system/files/2025-02/PAL%20ATT%205.02%20-
%20Network%20resilience%20plan%20-%20Jan2025.pdf.  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
22 
duration for economic assessment of 
resilience investment. VPN have adopted 
this regulated resilience benefit stream for 
its assessments 
5.4: Issuers have a viable plan to annually 
monitor (a) climate risks linked to the 
infrastructure, (b) climate resilience 
performance, (c) appropriateness of 
climate resilience measure(s) and to 
adjust as necessary to address evolving 
climate risks. 
 
VPN annually reports on the average 
number of minutes customers are without 
power due to planned and unplanned 
outages during the calendar year. VPN is 
working to minimise potential electricity 
disconnections due to climate risks and 
improve the resilience of its distribution 
network. 
Network performance is also presented to 
the Board quarterly for executive oversight. 
5.5: Where electricity supply has been 
interrupted, the number of customer 
interruptions and customer minutes lost 
(i.e. aggregate duration of supply 
interruptions) should be measured and 
reported, together with the cause of the 
interruption. Any actions taken to reduce 
the risk of further impacts should also be 
recorded. 
 
VPN’s Advanced Distribution Management 
System (ADMS) captures detailed data for 
every customer interruption, including the 
number of customers affected, the duration 
of the outage, and the root cause. 
The causes and impacts of these events are 
reviewed during monthly governance 
meetings, where actions are assigned for 
further investigation or, where feasible, 
immediate resolution. Reliability events are 
reported daily, providing visibility into their 
causes and business impact, while 
significant incidents are escalated to 
management on a monthly or as-needed 
basis. 
 
  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
23 
About Morningstar Sustainalytics 
Morningstar Sustainalytics is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors 
around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. 
For more than 30 years, the firm has been at the forefront of  developing high-quality, innovative 
solutions to meet the evolving needs of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with 
hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds, which incorporate ESG and 
corporate governance information and  assessments into their investment processes. 
Sustainalytics also works with hundreds of companies and their financial intermediaries to help 
them consider sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. For more information, visit 
www.sustainalytics.com. 
  
Pre-Issuance Verification Letter  
Victoria Power Networks  
  
 
 
  
 
 
24 
Disclaimer 
Copyright ©2025 Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company. All rights reserved. 
The information, methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected herein (the “Information”) 
are proprietary to Sustainalytics and/or its third-party content providers and may be made available 
to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalytics. The Information is not 
directed to, nor intended for distribution to or use by India -based clients and/or users, and the 
distribution of Information to India resident individuals and entities is not permitted. 
The Information is provided for informational purposes only and (1) does not constitute an 
endorsement of any product, project, investment strategy or consideration of any particular 
environmental, social or governance related issues as part of any investment strategy; (2) does not 
constitute investment advice nor recommends any particular investment, nor represents an expert 
opinion or negative assurance letter; (3) is not part of any offering and does not constitute an offer 
or indication to buy or sell s ecurities, to select a project nor enter into any kind of business 
transaction; (4) is not an assessment of the  economic performance, financial obligations nor 
creditworthiness of any entity; (5) is not a substitute for professional advice; (6) has not be en 
submitted to, nor received approval from, any relevant regulatory or governmental authority. Past 
performance is no guarantee of future results. 
The Information is based on information made available by third parties, is subject to continuous 
change and no warranty is made as to its completeness, accuracy, currency, nor the fitness of the 
Information for a particular purpose. The Information is provided “as is” and reflects Sustainalytics’ 
opinion solely at the date of its publication. 
Neither Sustainalytics nor its third -party content providers accept any liability in connection with 
the use of the Information or for actions of third parties with respect to the Information, in any 
manner whatsoever, to the extent permitted by applicable law. 
Any reference to third party content providers’ names is solely to acknowledge their ownership of 
information, methodologies, data and opinions contained or reflected within the Information and 
does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement of the Inform ation by such third-party content 
provider. For more information regarding third -party content providers visit 
http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers  
Sustainalytics may receive compensation for its ratings, opinions and other services, from, among 
others, issuers, insurers, guarantors and/or underwriters of debt securities, or investors, via 
different business units. Sustainalytics maintains measures designed to safeguard the objectivity 
and independence of its opinions. For more information visit Governance Documents or contact 
compliance@sustainalytics.com.  
This deliverable, in particular the images, text and graphics contained therein, and the layout and 
company logo of Sustainalytics are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof 
shall require express prior written consent. Use shall be deemed to refer in particular to the copying 
or duplication of the opinion wholly or in part, the distribution of the opinion, either free of charge 
or against payment, or the exploitation of this opinion in any other conceivable manner. 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for 
their implementation and monitoring.